Prologue

A dark figure, cloaked in a hooded cape, trudged wearily along a muddy path submerged in a dense misty forest. Its sluggish footsteps resembled that of a sleepwalker stepping noisily on shallow puddles and tangled roots, as it followed the pale green glow of fruits that hung from the thick canopy. A mournful cry wailed through the mist, and in a slow vigilant gaze, the cold, grim countenance of a pyrean was revealed from beneath the lowered hood. His name is of no importance, for there was no one to utter it in that forgotten forest, which apart from the faint droning of the glowing fruits seemed immersed in a deep slumber. The moist fragrance that exuded from the flowers seemed to carry unfamiliar memories, and the mottled bark from the tall broad trunks seemed to depict vague tales as primeval as the dawn of life.
There was no one to utter it, but the forest.
Carelessly trampling the undergrowth that had claimed the path, doubt began to stir inside him, forcing him to reconsider his decision in entering Her domain, compelling him to believe that She had deceived him in a final gesture of punishment. Wrapped in that treacherous doubt, it took him some time to realize the steadier glow of the fruits, which now provided him with a clearer sight of the path ahead. As he trod onward, the undergrowth became greener, the flowers livelier, and the crooked roots sprung stronger from the colossal trunks which had become twice as large and countless times taller than him. 
The mist gradually cleared, allowing him to see in the distance a glade laying bare to the silvery night. Confidence warmed his blood and banished all his doubts, for he knew he was arriving at the heart of the forest, the cradle of life, Her dwelling.
As he approached the glade, his black boots enveloped in the dormant mist, he took his first step on solid ground, and as he looked down, he saw that the path had turned into a trail of worn stepping stones that ended further ahead, at the porch of a small wooden cottage standing at the center of the glade. It seemed abandoned, reclaimed by the forest, with thick moss covering the deformed roof and fungi sprouting from the darkened walls.
He approached it, resolute.
A rocking chair swung eerily on the porch, fanned by an unfelt breeze. As he approached the door, his heavy footsteps on the wooden floor creaked from the porch to the glade and from the glade to the forest, rendering the chair to a still silence. When his dark glove was about to touch the rusty handle, something stopped him: a fleeting whisper floating with the breeze summoned him to the back of the cottage. She was calling him, so he answered without hesitation. 
And so it was that after countless days of wandering, he found Her, sitting quietly on an old, felled tree. A hood draped over Her face, and She was huddled in a worn gray robe that hid Her body. At Her waist, a thick rope tied the robe to Her withered form.
'At last I find you, witch,' he muttered in an accursed tone as he stopped before Her.
She seemed oblivious to his presence, rather focused on splitting leaves from a crooked branch and placing them in a pestle resting next to Her on the stone bench.
'That is no manner to address the one who saved you from death,' She uttered inattentively, Her haunting voice but a fleeting breeze.
When she picked the last leaf, the branch faded from Her hand, turning into mist that scattered through the heavy air. She placed the leaf on the pestle and pulled back Her hood, revealing Herself to him.
She donned the appearance of an elder lady, but Her wrinkled face lacked skin, flesh or bone, and Her long translucent hair was as silvery as the rays of light that shone upon Her. She seemed older than the forest, older than time itself even, and Her ethereal shape betrayed Her as a divine entity whose lingering on the material plane had withered Her grace.
'Death,' he muttered, impressed by Her appearance. 'For so long I have felt without life yet the meaning of that word still eludes me.'
She gave him a kind smile. 'And yet here you are, searching for the meaning of both,' she uttered, her voice a pleased breeze. 'Tell me, when was the last time you shed a tear?'
His darkened eyes glinted with displeasure from underneath the hood, for he knew just what She intended to ask. It had been so long since last they met, yet still She clung to the hope that he could be rescued from the emptiness that had consumed him.
After a fleeting silence, he raised his head proudly. 'I bear the burden of tears no more, witch,' he said. 'They have dried out, along with my past.'
Upon hearing him, Her smile faded and She turned once again to Her task. With Her ethereal hands She picked up the pestle and mortar and started crushing the stack of leaves and petals inside it. When they began forming a thick blue paste, their fragrance was released to the dormant glade. It was a soft and soothing scent, and wherever it spread, the saturated air became as fresh as a spring breeze.
'This forest is ancient,' she uttered. 'It holds a power that no living creature can tame.'
As he thoughtlessly inhaled the air, he sensed a change in him. The burden of carrying his body had lightened, and his mind was visited by visions of long forgotten places. Surrendering himself to the growing tranquility, he raised his head to the silvery night and his hood fell on his back, revealing his cold deathly face and long black hair. He closed his eyes and took a deep breath, filling his lungs with the soothing fragrance. His chest grew beyond the black cape and as the fine thread holding it around his neck untied, the cape fell to the ground, revealing all at once his grand shape. He was strong and menacing, and wore a plain crimson tunic tucked under a dark belt adorned with intricate patterns of gold. On his robust legs he wore a pair of black breeches tucked into the tall boots.
'What a pyrean you have become,' remarked the ethereal figure, whose meager size was half his stature. 'The first I met you, you were but a scrawny boy. Now you have become great beyond comparison.'
'Pyrean?' he asked bitterly, opening his eyes. 'No. There is no Pyre left in me.'
She rose from the stone bench and placed a palm on his chest, the touch flooding his body with a renewed calmness. 'Do not lose faith. That boy lives on inside you. You lost sight of him only because you stopped looking,' she uttered, and her haunting voice carried an alluring kindness. 'No one ever truly forgets. There is a part of us that is eternal. And that part, whether you want it or not, not even death can erase.'
He lowered his eyes, humbled by Her unbridled grace, 'It is only by your will that I still live.'
She smiled and turned to grab the mortar containing the finished mixture. Then, she walked to a cauldron boiling on a fire at the back of the wooden cottage. She dripped the liquefied paste into the bubbling water and stirred it with a long wooden spoon, whispering an indecipherable chant. After it had coagulated into a glowing blue soup, she picked up a nearby wooden bowl and dipped it in the cauldron.
He raised his head proudly and spoke with impatience, 'I have come to fulfil my oath. Tell me what You will have me do or release me from it.'
Bearing the bowl in Her hands, She walked back to him, as the weightless flowers floating around Her body left a trail behind.
'I will have you do nothing,' She said firmly, 'but to drink from this bowl. It is then that your oath shall be redeemed, and the answers that you seek found.'
He gazed at her ethereal form and spoke with resolve, 'If that is all You ask of me, so be it.'
She took one sip from the bowl and then offered it to him.
He accepted it, snatching it with one brute hand. Then he drank without hesitation one mouthful of the warm soup. Its taste was intense and difficult to withstand. He closed his eyes, and as the soup lingered in his mouth, he began to see events before his time with unparalleled clarity. He saw the birth of the Cosmos, of its stars and galaxies, of star systems and planets and moons, and the birth of life itself. He swallowed the essence, for he was unable to bear the ever growing and overwhelming depth of the visions any further.
With a trembling hand, he dropped the wooden bowl on the ground.
'Certain pasts are too terrible to be remembered, 'She uttered to him in a tranquil voice.' Others are too important to be forgotten. Yours lies in the middle: a tragic past that fate has decided to remember, perhaps because it may lead to a brighter future.'
Despite beginning to feel deeply entranced, his voice was steady, 'There is no past more terrible than an empty present.'
When he opened his eyes and looked at Her, he felt surprised. Her skin had become tree bark and Her hair green strands of vine, and the delicate features of Her cinnamon face were of an unmatched beauty, paling in comparison only to the irresistible calling of Her deep green eyes. 
'We have tasted the essence of life. Soon, we will begin our journey. It is a journey we shall take together, through the untamable Tides of Fate. I shall be your guide and I shall do all within my power to help you remember.'
For a moment, there was a stony silence in the glade.
As he looked at her, waiting to see an image of his past, he was overtaken by a strange weakness that slowly overpowered him.
Startled, he saw that the forest around him had come to life. The vines began to creep towards him and when he looked down, he saw that the skin from his forearms was gradually becoming as brown and rugged as tree bark and his boots slowly sank into the ground, attracting vines that crept up his legs.
'Your body, my body,' he heard her soothing voice.
'What trickery is this?' he asked, unrest mounting in him as he tried to no effort to command his legs to move. The had become hard and solid as trees, rooted deep in the ground.
'You are becoming one with the forest, one with Me,' She answered calmly.
Her shape, once elderly and ethereal, had become the youthful and gracious embodiment of the forest and Her gray cloak dissolved into weightless red leaves that floated freely about Her bare body, which was undergoing the same change as his, gradually turning into solid wood.
'Your mind, my mind,' he heard her soothing whisper in his mind.
'This was not what I...' he uttered as his face turned into solid wood, his eyes the only part of his body that he could command.
He stared at her with astonished surprise, and as she stared back, both their eyes turned into bark, caught in an unmoving stare.
'Your soul, my soul.'

Time stood still that instant. As his body remained frozen, turned into wood, his consciousness was gently carried away to a distant quiet place. He felt far from himself, detached, alone. He closed his eyes. When he reopened them, he was immersed in an empty brightness, an eternal white in perfect harmony with the distant chanting of an unseen choir. It was all so calm, so tranquil and at peace. He felt free, and so he marveled at the melody and basked in the warmth that embraced him. Slowly, the boundless white was gradually filled with never-ending specks of colors, and as they floated through him, he heard indistinct voices, children's laughter. He had time to draw a smile before all the colors, all the voices and the laughter converged abruptly in front of him into one white light, one note, one single breath of time that ended in an immensurable collapse that delivered him to a complete and silent darkness.
A pure soothing voice broke the silence:
'By journeying through the Tides of Fate, we shall see the course of events through the memories of countless lives whose bodies have turned to dust. Stories that were left untold shall unravel themselves clearer than any recollection. We shall see who you were, and when you return, you will know who you are.'
'Awake now from your slumber and relive your past.'
'Awake!' said a voice, now in a demanding tone.

Part I - A long-expected Gathering

First memory - Accounts of a remote past

'Wake up, apprentice Alan!' yelled mentor Levine.
You flinched on your chair and opened your eyes. The feeling that you were in trouble quickly roused you to a state of full awareness. Glancing from one side to the other, you found her straight ahead, sitting behind her desk above the dais. Eyes locked on her sharp stare, you sat up straight and calmly placed your hands on your desk.
'Given that you are such an expert on this topic that you need not stay awake, you shall clarify for us the first details pertaining to the beginning of the Age of Obscurity,' she said.
From the silence that followed, you could hear the whisperings of some of your fellow apprentices complaining about the interruption.
The mentor placed her forearms on her plain metal desk, clasped her hands and beckoned firmly, 'Apprentice Balthazar, time does not stand still,' she said, this time employing your surname, as was formally required.
...Alan Balthazar...that was my name...
You gave her a defiant stare, and above the whisperings, you calmly asked, 'The official account or the truth?'
The indoctrination room was instantly immersed in a dumbfounded silence as every apprentice straightened in their chairs and looked directly ahead.
The mentor rose from her seat, staring at you gravely. 'Be very cautious in choosing your next words apprentice Balthazar, for if they are not what I expect to hear I shall personally escort you to a group of Overseers.'
You hid your uneasiness under a calm expression, knowing you had gone too far. You would not dare challenge her any further, for you had experience of how disturbing a session with Council Overseers could be: strenuous hours of interrogation followed by a long wait for the results, but worst of all, their subversive speech which seemed more like a subliminal way of compelling you to obedience rather than a simple reprimand.
'My apologies, mentor Levine,' you answered, a sober look on your face. 'It was not my intention to show disrespect.'
The mentor did not react immediately. During the uncomfortable silence that followed she merely gave you a dull stare.
'Apology accepted, apprentice Balthazar,' she then mumbled with indifference.
Slowly and wearily, she sat back on her chair and resumed the indoctrination as though nothing had happened, continuing to address the circumstances that led to the extinction of the Antiga Pyre:
'With the analysis of recently discovered artifacts, it has become clear to us that the collapse of antigan civilization is related to the emergence of the retrovirus PIn-T2. This retrovirus was incurable and highly contagious, and in many cases, it would not terminate the existence of its host, earning it the title of the Torment. Due to these characteristics, it rapidly spread throughout antigan societies and destroyed them from within, either by infecting their inhabitants or by forcing them to flee,' she said and stopped to take a sip of water from the cup on top of the desk, only to continue at the monotonous pace of her ever-parching lips. 'Archaeological evidence further suggests that the end of the Age of the Antiga Pyre was marked by the antigan's last effort to contain the pandemic with the construction of self-sustained safe-havens. Despite ensuring the safety of their residents, these save-havens proved to be unsuccessful in stemming the continuous invasions of infected pyreans without terminating their existence, and in the centuries of genocide that followed, the Antiga Pyre slipped to the brink of self-extinction.'
As you waited for the end of the indoctrination. you struggled to focus your attention on her less than plump face and short gray hair, yet, from time to time, you could not resist looking outside the window-wall behind her. The sky was a pale shade of orange, the sign that Mithras was setting, and the indoctrination was soon ending. You were anxious for that moment, for you and Haji had planned to spend the rest of the afternoon at the Shelter.
Haji, however, was paying due attention, sitting at the desk next to yours and listening to every word the mentor spoke. When she busied herself for a moment to prepare the next holographic projection, he gave you a sympathetic smile to demonstrate his solidarity. Instead of feeling sorry for yourself, you threw him a wicked grin.
A three-dimensional projection of Artica highlighting the last pockets of antigan civilization appeared above the holoprojector, a large bowl-shaped device the length of a pyrean that was placed on the center of the days.
'There are few recovered artifacts of the subsequent Age of Obscurity,' mentor Levine continued, 'nevertheless, these allowed us to determine that the save-havens were eventually exposed to the virus and their inhabitants infected. During the following millennia, the remaining antigans scattered throughout Artica, some adopting a nomadic form of existence, others constructing small crude encampments that were presumably unable to grow beyond haphazard settlements. It was during these six thousand years of obscurity that the legacy of the antigan civilization was lost and the genetic mutation caused by the retrovirus settled into the gene pool of the Pyre as it was carried on from generation to generation, unchecked, unhindered. Ultimately, this mutation led the last survivors of the Antiga Pyre to evolve into a new species, we, the Nova Pyre,' mentor Levine stated, her dull voice hindering your task of answering the feedback questions that were being continuously sent to your neuropad .
'The Age of Obscurity was a time of ignorance and savagery, but it was during that time, and in such inhospitable conditions, that a pyrean rose up and rescued the Pyre from its slow but inevitable self-extinction. After decades of isolation on the most ancient and reclusive laboratory of the Nova Pyre, our illustrious Guiding Father conceived a device capable of suppressing our genetic flaw. It was then, that in his great wisdom, he created the Personal Identification Unit, thus putting an end to the Age of Obscurity. It was then, that he became the Savior of the Pyre,' she said and became silent, casting her droopy eyes upon each of the apprentices.
A murmur spread throughout the room as a few apprentices began murmuring amongst themselves, some pointing, others staring at their left forearms. Because she was pleased with their suspicion, mentor Levine expressed her only smile throughout the entire year. It was but a thin bent line on her lips, yet given it was coming from her, it was as big of a display of joy as laughing.
'Precisely,' she resumed with a withered enthusiasm, 'the thin, transparent membrane bound to your left forearm is far more extraordinary than it appears to be. Despite its apparent simplicity, it represents the ingenuity of the Pyre in overcoming the retrovirus that put an end to our ancestors, and it is one of the two core technologies that ensure the functionality of our prototype metropolis. The Unit, as it is commonly referred to, is not only capable of regulating and monitoring our vital functions, but also of blocking the genetic flaw caused by the retrovirus.' Pausing for a moment to recover her breath, she drank the last sip of water from the cup and resumed. 'The second core technology of Darm and the second most important achievement of our Guiding Father, is the sentient artificial intelligence that maintains order in our metropolis. She resides in the Netcore, and readily performs the invaluable and interminable task of monitoring and processing all the activities performed by every citizen and apprentice in Darm, an exemplary performance which has awarded her the title of Mother. In sum, it is only because of these two technologies that the Nova Pyre was allowed to build a sustainable and prosperous metropolis, without ignorance or savagery, without quarrel or idleness, and most important of all, free from the affliction that put an end to the Antiga Pyre more than six thousand years ago. It is a brilliant accomplishment, one that has rescued us from the Age of Obscurity and brought us to a new age, the Age of Enlightenment,' she said, her stare shifting from apprentice to apprentice and finally resting on you.
With some difficulty, you restrained your desire to reply with a statement that would certainly condemn you to spend the rest of the afternoon in an interrogation room. Instead, you gently smiled at her, and when her stare was no longer upon you, you expelled your impatience through your nostrils.
Not long after, there was the short notice coming from your Unit, announcing the end of the indoctrination. The window-wall behind the mentor darkened and the side walls of the room were lit with long lists of names, the Standings of the one thousand Level Ten apprentices. Before granting permission to stand and leave, mentor Levine, herself standing next to the holoprojector, announced:
'For the next indoctrination, I shall begin the last topic of the year: a modern approach to the impact of the Torment in the surviving populations scattered across Artica. I remind you once more, that fifty Credits are awarded to those who productively prepare and present it. Therefore, those of you who are intent on achieving this year's Highest Distinction award shall do well in preparing these final indoctrinations.'
From amongst the names and corresponding Standings on the walls, fifty were highlighted in front of their respective number. You looked with indifference at your name in front of the number eight hundred.
'According to the current Standings, apprentice Sophie Andersen, standing on the twenty-seventh, holds the highest standing of this class, followed by apprentice Heidi Lauren on the forty-sixth and apprentice Haji Donovan in the sixty-fourth. The lowest Standings would do well to seek advice from these bright apprentices,' she said, glancing at you and some other apprentices who lowered their heads with embarrassment.
She then nodded to the class, granting permission to stand up and leave.
You had barely risen from the chair when she added, 'Apprentice Balthazar, do refrain from leaving your seat.'
You let out a quiet sigh and sat down again, glancing at your colleagues as they rolled up their neuropads, packed them in their utility belts and walked past you. When Haji was leaving, you caught his attention and whispered, 'Wait for me outside?'
'Certainly,' he said, bowing his head low in a display of solidarity.
When the last apprentice left and the sliding door behind you closed automatically, the room fell into an absolute silence. You remained in your seat, your head hanging low, your eyes fixed on your emptied desktop. You heard the mentor's footsteps approaching, echoing off the cold marble floor. When the echoes suddenly stopped, you raised your eyes to see her standing straight before you, her violet pants and jacket both tightly pressed against her tall scrawny body.
'Apprentice Balthazar, throughout this year you have expressed nothing more than a clear intent in confronting every mentor that attempts to correct your inappropriate behavior,' she started, and despite her apathetic stare, her voice was sharp. 'When it finally seems that you have caught interest in History doctrine, you seize the first opportunity I grant you to breach the Directives and question the validity of your indoctrinations with, to say the very least, a slanderous insinuation.'
There was nothing you could say to mend your situation, so you lowered your eyes and listened quietly.
'Not to mention your indecorous act of defiance towards a mentor,' she said, and she was deeply disappointed when she saw your indifferent glance. 'What is the cause for such indiscipline? I would very much wish to know, for then I would be able to assist you in resolving your issues without being forced to notify the Council of Mentalists.'
Her warning caught your undivided attention. You straightened your back and gave her a solemn stare.
'This was my last reprimand, apprentice Balthazar. I sincerely advise you to fulfill your obligations as an apprentice, otherwise I shall have to fulfill the most unpleasant obligation of a mentor and fail you. You know very well the Council does not invest in lost causes. Consequently, a mentor does not invest in lost causes,' she calmly tugged at the hem of her violet jacket, clasped her hands in front of her waist and returned to her dull voice. 'As a means of recovering your lucidity, do perform the supplemental tasks that I shall be sending to your neuropad. Consider them a corrective measure as an alternative to cognitive rehabilitation . Order ensures Progress, apprentice Balthazar.'
...to condemn and punish defiance...that is how order is ensured...

Outside the indoctrination room, the wide curved hallway was practically emptied. Most of the apprentices had already left and the only sound was the echo of footsteps. You walked down the south stairwell of the building and when you reached the ground floor, you headed towards the East entrance of the Academy, where Haji chatted with Sophie. When you stopped before him, a troubled look on your face, he interrupted the conversation and asked with concern:
'Is everything well?'
You looked at him and sighed. 'I think her patience is finally coming to an end.'
'I tried to caution you, but I was unsuccessful. You were deeply asleep,' he explained.
You shrugged and smiled. 'It wasn't your fault,' you said. Then you mimicked mentor Levine, speaking in a tedious voice, 'apparently, she is not quite the admirer of apprentices who fall asleep during her dissertation regarding the greatness of our illustrious Guiding Father.'
'That and your eloquently put question,' Haji added, captivated by your mockery.
The ease with which you deliberately disrespected mentor Levine was greatly bothering Sophie, as was the way Haji fell under your misguided influence. She crossed her arms tightly and furrowed her thin golden eyebrows at you, 'Alan, have you realized that with the time you waste questioning everything that is indoctrinated, you could be, the same way all other apprentices are, striving to achieve a high standing and ensuring your future as a citizen of Darm?'
You buried your amusement under a surprised face. You were aware that she disliked your acts of defiance, but it was unusual for her to scold you. As you looked at her worried eyes, you rapidly realized she was merely attempting to express her concern about the negative influence you had on Haji.
'Sophie,' you said in a sympathetic tone, 'our existence should not be limited to a standing that one can achieve by earning Credits, even less when those who grant them do so to keep us disciplined and obedient.' 
Haji whispered close to your ear, 'Does that also mean you do not mind arriving late and starting the race in last?'
Just as you heard him, the reason you had so eagerly waited for the end of the indoctrination popped into your mind.
'Shoot!' you let out the loud interjection. When you saw Sophie's dumbfounded stare, you scratched the back of your head and chuckled innocently.
 Sophie squinted at you, 'Are you two going to breach the Directives again?' she asked, her voice a blend of concern mixed with reprimand.
'Something like that,' you answered, eyes squinting with mischief.
She gave you a harsh stare. 'Some day, the Council of Mentalists will not be as lenient with you as they have been until now, Alan. And when that day comes, if I am to be interrogated by Overseers, I shall say that I have nothing to do with---with---any of you,' she said, looking at Haji as well.
'They would know that it is not true,' Haji stated. 'Mother is aware that we spend time together.'
She slapped her thighs, eyeing him with frustration, 'Haji, please be careful! We are one month away from becoming citizens. I do not want you to do anything to harm your citizenship.'
Haji looked into her amber eyes and spoke kindly:
'I would never do anything that would separate us, Sophie.'
Sophie looked at him very seriously. Slowly, her cheeks started to redden. When she realized she was unable to restrain her embarrassment any longer, she turned her eyes to your silly entertained expression. You quickly looked away in an effort to appear oblivious to their conversation, only to peek back when she was no longer looking.
Sophie looked at Haji and gave him an endearing smile, 'I appreciate your consideration,' she answered shyly, struggling to hold back her delight while her eyes glittered with joy. 'Now please be careful and take care of---him,' she said, pointing at you with displeasure.
Haji looked at her hesitantly. His remark had been by far his best attempt to reveal his interest in her, and he had eagerly waited for a reply that would allow him to safely confirm or deny that she was equally interested in him. However, her answer was not as revealing as he had expected. He bowed his head and said soberly, 'Certainly, Sophie.'
You and Haji were already stepping through the exit when Sophie remembered, 'Do not forget to show up at the East Retreat. We will be discussing the preparations for this year's Gathering.'
'I wouldn't miss it for all the Credits in Darm!' you answered loudly, drawing the attention of two apprentices exiting the Academy in a proper manner.
Sophie hid her face behind her long golden locks. 'One day, I will be summoned by the Overseers. I can feel it,' she mumbled to herself, as she retreated to the broad study hall on the outer side of the curved hallway.

Second memory - Nightfall at the White Metropolis

[...] and the Academy for Indoctrination and Preparation for Citizenship. These shall be the four facilities surrounding the Netcore, the primary structure of the metropolis. An ideal cylinder in shape and with a surface made entirely of a reflective composite, the Netcore shall reside atop the Central Circle and shall surpass in height and splendor any other structure ever built by the Pyre, rising above the storms as a symbol of our perseverance. Extending from the Central Circle along the cardinal directions, the Four Boulevards will stretch out to the Four Magnetization Towers. These structures shall emit a resonant magnetic field capable of levitating personal and public transports and providing free energy to any device inside the metropolis. Periodically installed along the rims of the Boulevards, there shall be spacious floating platforms which will lift its inhabitants to the Panoramic Way. Spanning across the metropolis directly above the Four Boulevards, the Panoramic Way shall provide an alternative means of transportation. In conclusion, these will be the primary constructs of the prototype metropolis, and they shall serve its inhabitants so that they may perform their duties in an efficient manner.

An excerpt from annex #21: Directives for the construction of Darm;
Division of Urban Planning under the authority of Mentalist Torval;


Outside the hallway, Mithras, the star that shone upon Artica and warmed its frozen crust, had already hidden behind the tall and imposing buildings of the Specialist Class Sector, engulfing the Academy in a fresh shadow. You and Haji rushed down the stairs and quickly crossed the main courtyard, adorned at the center by a fountain with a white marble statue of the Guiding Father.
Upon entering the East Boulevard, you hastily weaved your way through the aligned flow of citizens as orderly as you could, climbing afterwards onto the nearest floating platform whose entrance remained perpetually guarded by two sentinels .
The warm maternal voice of Mother spoke in your mind: ''Access to platform number two authenticated and granted. Have a pleasant Rest Time, apprentice Balthazar.''
'I intend to,' you whispered to yourself as you stopped next to Haji in the back row of citizens.
The platform reached its maximum quota slowly, as citizens and apprentices returned from their tasks. By the look on some of their tired faces, they were headed to their residences to find some well needed rest.
'Return hour...' you complained impatiently to Haji.
Haji nodded, smiling afterwards to the citizen next of him, who glanced back with absent eyes. Shortly after, the ascent was announced by the uncoupling of the magnetic locks that held the floating platform one step above the ground.

Five hundred meters above, you and Haji boarded a Panoramic Transport and took your seats. Apart from the flooring and the seats, which were made of a metal so polished that mirrored every passenger, the rest of the structure was made of permaglass , allowing for a panoramic view of Darm. Far to the East, beyond the countless blocks of residences and the Coastal Walkway, was the Sea of Tranquility.
'Sophie is really interested in you,' you said, sitting next to Haji on an aisle seat.
Sitting in a window seat and looking outside, Haji turned his attention to you and asked with enthusiasm, 'Are you for certain?'
You gave him a confused stare, 'Well...yes. She was practically speechless after you told her you would never do anything that would drive you apart,' you quoted amusedly. 'And did you see the way she blushed?'
'Yes, I did,' he said. 'But it seemed like a normal reaction, given the circumstances.'
'A normal reaction?!' you asked, eyes widened in surprise. 'I can't understand how you see it that way.'
Haji stared at is boots while reviewing every nuance of her reaction, every detail of her bashful gestures, her sparkling eyes, her coy smile, her mellifluous voice. 
He sighed, 'It is hard to read her mind.'
'Haji, trust me. She likes you, for certain,' you teased, grinning afterwards.
When you arrived at the Administrator Class Sector, you and Haji disembarked with many of the remaining passengers and entered the Sixth Platform. As it descended, you saw through the transparent floor the dense blocks of residences gradually grow under your feet. Darm was enduring the last weeks of the freezing winter of Artica, and the unrelenting snowstorms were still evident in the mantles of snow accumulated on the streets, water fountains and rooftops.
Arriving at ground level, you and Haji stepped onto the street with hasty footsteps, and after a short walk you arrived at the crossroads that connected your streets.
'The first one to arrive at the meeting point waits for the other,' Haji reminded you. 'Don't do anything foolish, troublemaker.'
'I will try not to, edgy,' you quickly riposted, and as he turned to his street you turned to yours.

...what was the meaning of these names...
After breaking so many of Darm's Directives, you gave each other nicknames. Haji was the first to adopt them ten years before this time, after an act of insurgence at the Academy where you attempted to instigate your fellow apprentices to skip indoctrinations. Haji was the only one to support you, and for that, both of you were deprived of Rest Day for the rest of the year. He never blamed you for it, and he never left your side afterwards, regardless of all the trouble you got him into. It was long ago that the bonds of your friendship were first forged.
...Haji...who are you...

***

Before he could head for the Shelter, Haji had to deceive Mother by taking his routine path back to his residence. Mother was not only capable of accurately pinpointing the location of any darmian through the signal each Unit emitted, but also of determining if that location was valid for their occupation. As an Apprentice, a journey to the Manufacturing Sector during Rest Time would be promptly characterized as an inappropriate conduit.
As he walked down the sidewalk, crunching the layer of snow resting on top of the marble pavement, he remembered the day when the Shelter's owner gave him the program capable of eluding Her, and how he was able to re-route his Unit's signal by installing the program on his residence's terminal and use it as a bridge between his Unit and Mother. As a result, every time he activated the program, he was free to travel to any place in Darm, while Mother saw him as simply an exhausted darmian lying on his bed.
When he arrived at his residence, he greeted his caretakers, who were sitting on the comfortable sofa of the living room, and explained he was going out and was arriving late due to a meeting with his friends, while carefully omitting where he was going next. After walking up the stairs to his room to activate the Signal Re-Route, he bowed to his caretakers and left quickly, seeming to his caretakers that he had only come to retrieve something he needed.
He then returned to the streets, trudging along the cold snowy pavement, his hands tucked in the jacket's pockets, his face hidden behind his facemask while his head tilted low beneath the green hood. He avoided proximity with other passersby, always keeping in mind he could not risk being identified.

...this was no memory of mine...
It was not. All life is bound to the Tides of Fate, and as we flow through it, we are free to see the course of events through the viewpoint of any life. It was your desire to see Haji that brought upon you a thread of his past.
...then I can control these visions...
You can, but only because your will is strong. However, you must take caution, for the journey through the Tides of Fate is not without peril to the reckless traveler. Its currents are treacherous, and if your will falters, you may lose hold over them and become trapped inside the memories of another. It is best that you let me guide you.

***

After you activated your Signal Re-Route, you headed on to the meeting point, crossing the East Boulevard towards the first row of the tall large facilities of the Manufacturing Sector. When you arrived, you leaned against a ventilation box and looked at the sky. Mithras had already sunk below the horizon, covering the heavens with dark shades of blue, which stubbornly forbade Oderon's Rings from claiming the night with their silvery light. Some of the largest lunoids already managed to shine through, and these stretched across the heavens from pale-blue twilight to dark-blue nightfall, their sharp glare preventing any other star from shining through.
Haji arrived soon after. He approached the ventilation box, which emitted a soft pulsating sound as it spewed warm purified air into the atmosphere. 
'It is a pleasant evening for a walk,' he remarked, his voice projected through the facemask.
You stepped away from the box and greeted him with a bow.
'Did you put yourself to sleep?' he asked, referring to the act of turning on the Signal Re-Route.
'Something like that,' you answered in an amused tone, your face hiding behind the facemask as well. 'But Evander is becoming sort of a nuisance. He doesn't stop complaining about it. I might just have to reprogram him.'
'For all the hardship you go through from having only one caretaker, at least you have a lively host,' he said amusedly.
You shrugged. 'I suppose. Shall we?'
Haji nodded.

The conventional way to enter any sector was crossing the checkpoints that connected the Four Boulevards with the streets and avenues of the adjacent sectors. However, each checkpoint was supervised by sentinels. Aware of the risk of being spotted by the droids, whose sensors could detect the irregularity in your signal, you avoided walking under the hovering lamps that lit the boulevard, hid from sight behind the benches and ventilation boxes, and then snuck inside the Manufacturing Sector through an unguarded alley between two facilities.
'Made it,' you said in a lively manner, after peering back and making sure no sentinels were marching your way.
Quietly treading towards the end of the alley, you entered one of the secondary streets only to quickly disappear into the shadowy alley of the next row of facilities.
'I wonder if Brent has already prepared the interface,' you mumbled restlessly, as you reviewed the procedures for the race.
'That is not the worst of our concerns,' Haji whispered.
Despite his vague answer, you understood what he meant. You knew, as well as he did, how complex and perilous it was to establish a connection abroad. Several override protocols were required to bypass the seemingly flawless control nodes that shielded Mother's communications network from unauthorized access. All that was needed for her to detect an anomaly and locate the source of the signal, was but one of those protocols to fail. Every time you thought about it, you could not help but wonder why Brent risked his citizenship to grant you the opportunity to enjoy the best entertainment that Remgast had to offer.

Upon arriving at the alley adjacent to the facility concealing the Shelter, you stopped in front of its sealed maintenance door. You knocked once, stopped, and then twice.
Then you waited.
And waited.
The metallic door slid open in an instant.
From the scarcely illuminated interior, stepped forth a tall imposing pyrean, broad in stature, with a stern face and strong chin that made him look older than he was. He was wearing a yellow jumpsuit packed with flap pockets, and his robust hands rested on a utility belt with several tools hanging from it.
He gave each of you a piercing stare, 'A little longer and I would have had Mother look for you,' he scoffed.
'You know how lengthy travelling can get during Return Hour, especially near the end of the year,' you explained.
'The actual truth is that Alan had another private conversation with the History mentor,' Haji stated.
You elbowed him, your eyes smiling innocently at Brent.
Brent pursed his lips and stared at you for a while. Then, he cautiously examined the alley from one side to the other, 'Hurry inside,' he said, stepping aside.
You and Haji complied immediately. When the sliding door closed behind you, you removed your facemasks.
The facility was dark, except for a stream of light that stretched from an opened entrance atop a staircase to the right. A huge container loomed before you, blocking the access to the innermost part of the facility.
You followed Brent through the improvised corridor between the container and the steel staircase, 'So...Alan, are you trying to start an insurrection?' he jested, looking back with a wicked grin.
You gave him a proud smile. Impressing Brent was one of the few things you cared about.
'Luckily for you, I took the time to set up the interface,' he added.
Under the steel staircase was another staircase that led to the underground level. You and Haji followed Brent down the staircase, and as soon as the luminous projectors lit up the pitch black basement, he led you to a corner, walking past a circular platform whose function was to lower the cargo bundles onto the magnetic conveyor connected to the Materialization Chamber.
Stopping at the corner, Brent felt one flap pocket with one hand, and then the other, and another. He muttered some interjections and then looked at his utility belt. He fumbled in the belt's pocket for a while. A smile lit his face and he pulled out his closed hand. 
'Almost forgot where I had put it. Almost,' he said.
In his right hand rested a smooth black cube the size of his palm. He turned to face the fibreconcrete wall and kneeled. When he pressed the cube onto the wall with one thumb, the cube responded with a sharp beep!. He then rose to his feet, stretching the upper edge of the cube diagonally across the wall. The cube expanded, becoming a tall rectangular frame resembling that of a door. When it seemed wide enough to cross, he pressed the thumb again. Almost immediately, an image popped up from the wall inside the frame: a set of power bars filled in green with a message floating below, flickering with the word ''Ready.''
When Brent's finger touched the word, the casing emitted an ever higher shrill sound, and moments after, when the sound rose to a deafening screech, an intense flare erupted from the casing and converged into the center in a blinding eruption of light that forced you to close your eyes.
Afterwards, there was only a tenuous whirring, soft to the ears.
'Dive through,' you heard Brent say as you opened your eyes.
Diving through was the ideal expression to describe the passage through the liquefied wall, for the matter dispersion device had converted the virtually impenetrable fibreconcrete into a viscous liquid.
On the other side of the semi-transparent surface, leisurely undulating as if submerged, was a partial view of a scarcely lit room and two barely perceptible armchairs with their backs turned against the wall opposite the entrance.
'I hate this part,' you complained, a look of nausea in your face as you stared at the liquefied wall.
Haji smiled at you dived through. His body plunged into the wall and emerged on the other side. His body wobbled like gelatin as he turned and waved at you through the liquefied wall. 
Brent stepped back, ushering you into the Shelter.
'Apprentices first,' he said, not on account of politeness you concluded by the grin on his face.
You threw him a grumpy smile and approached the wall. You plunged your right leg in and with your right foot you tapped the firm flat floor on the other side. Then, you closed your eyes, held your breath, and pushed yourself through, piercing through the viscous layer of fibreconcrete that resisted your every movement, only to spew you afterwards into the Shelter.
Third memory - When drifters race

[...] is Remgast, the metropolis that hosts the drifter races, and the only pyrean construct that matches the greatness and technological marvel of Darm. Although inviting apprentices to the Shelter does not directly justify the risk of exposing our entire operation, these games provide the apprentices a direct exposure to the reality outside of Darm, which consequently helps gather supporters for the Uprising. When we have gathered enough supporters, we will set our plan into motion. We will begin by ***FILE CORRUPTED*** they were waiting for us in the tunnels. I don't understand how they found us. I cleared my mind from any thought. I made no ***FILE CORRUPTED*** knew our plan from the start. And now Vittas has killed Von Howitt and I am trapped inside an Air Intake Field. I will not last through the night. They will come for ***FILE CORRUPTED***

An excerpt from the captured log-files of the Silent Uprising;
Division of Darmian Security under the authority of Mentalist Vittas;


The dimly lit chamber had a cozy appearance. It had a low ceiling, a fluffy dark-grey carpet, and a row of six stuffed armchairs with their backs turned to six corresponding holoscreens, thin malleable screens that provided viewers with a realistic sense of depth. Four of them were in suspension mode, displaying the Drifter Races' logo - a mirrored D followed by an R, both blended in such fashion that they seemed but one unusual symbol - while the two holoscreens closest to the improvised entrance displayed a dark-blue background with silver lettered options, the start menu of Drifter Races.
You rushed to the first armchair and sat down. Haji quickly followed, sitting on the other.
Brent walked towards the far end of the chamber and let the weariness of a tiresome day sink him into the chair behind his desk. After rubbing his eyes with one hand, he put on the neuroglove and activated the desk holoprojector atop the desk.
'Link yourselves to the psysis and dive into the dream world,' he said.
Sitting on the armchair, you placed the mesh-shaped device on your head and laid back, the armchair reclining into a prone position. You closed your eyes, your lips bearing a smile, and cleared your mind, allowing the dark quietness to lull you into a dreamless trance.
'Have a nice dream,' you heard Brent's voice in the distance.
Your emptied mind was soon lit by flashes of blurred images and garbled sounds; they came in increasing waves which began flowing like a smooth stream of water. Upon its surface, you saw the clear reflection of the game's options menu, with several options written in psychedelic-blue letters that floated freely over the water.
Amidst the silent dream, you heard the host, 'Establishing an uplink, please hold.'

Sitting behind his desk, Brent attempted to find the safest route for the uplink, steering his hand through the endless stream of data projected above his desk. He rushed along the floating green lines with unflinching concentration, dodging and avoiding every red cube before his path, letting experience guide his almost unconscious gestures with all the precision required for a flawless flight through the digital itinerary.
'This one looks safe,' he muttered to himself, pointing the index finger at a blue cube. 'Now, just a few override protocols and it's done.' 
When he spread his fingers above the highlighted cube, it opened, exposing lines and lines of data impressed on each of the inner faces. He pointed to the face corresponding to the information packets sent to Mother and added a line that would bypass the protocols of the uplink with an override protocol containing uninteresting information. 
'Through the duration of the race we shall be most enthusiastically delving into the records of past geothermal activity in the Sea of Tranquility. Nothing suspicious about it, nothing illegal,' he said to himself.

Alone in your dream, you configured the game options through a sub-menu filled with several parameters, touching the virtual icons with one finger as though the dream had become a palpable reality where any object could be manipulated. Once the hostess confirmed that the uplink was established, you eagerly connected to the game server. 
'Commencing translocation,' said the host.
The configurations menu evaporated in front of you, and you fell at an increasingly higher speed towards what seemed to be the upper view of a giant pavilion floating in dark space. It loomed and loomed ever closer, until you flew right through the ceiling and landed abruptly on a small blue pad inside a vast white hall. 
You got on your feet, shook your head, and saw that you had arrived at the crowded Game Hall of the racetrack. On the walls to your left and right were the tunnels that extended to the pits. At the end of the hall was the long check-in counter, and right behind it, was a window-wall with a view to the racetrack.
Haji was at your side on the spawning pad, clenching and loosening his fists and cracking his neck, left to right. You recognized him immediately, although his face was not his own. Inside the dream world, every user was able to customize his or her appearance through different criteria such as height, weight, hair, voice and even the color and style of their race suits. It was since the very first drifter race that Haji chose to assume the shape of a short and chubby old pyrean, with plump cheeks and long gray hair. Though his was the shortest of all avatars in the drifter races, his limbs were so brawny that they had earned him the respect of every player, which was of great importance, for brawling was not an uncommon outcome whenever there was a misunderstanding between competitors.
'Sturdy as ever,' he said looking at you, and his voice was as warm as his smile.
Your avatar had a youthful look, tall and athletic with a fair noble countenance. Standing next to you, Haji was no higher than your hips. The two of you formed such a unique combination that you were easily recognizable to all your opponents. Rogli and Wogli were your aliases - yours being the first - and given that you were the only darmians playing the game, they were uttered with both humor and respect.
'Let's check-in,' you said and stepped down from the spawning pad.
Haji nodded and followed you.

Only one team of players remained in the Game Hall, and they stood amongst the crowd, seeming to be engaged in a heated discussion with four rowdy spectators concerning a lost bet. Gastians were lively people, and they seemed to find pleasure in engaging in silly competitions regarding just about anything that crossed their restless minds, and they took bets very seriously. By the angry look on the spectator's faces, it was evident that their patience was coming to an end. When the two beleaguered players saw you, they found the perfect chance to leave with their pride - and their avatars - intact. As you walked past them, they greeted you cheerfully, briefly followed you, and then made a discrete run for the tunnel.
When you approached the counter to check-in for the race, the two tall game administrators standing behind it briefly halted their discussion on which of their avatars could wipe their nose with their toes. As soon as they confirmed your aliases, they pointed to the tunnel that led to your pit and resumed arguing without as much of a glance towards you. 
'I'm tellin' ya I can do it!' the one on the left insisted, bouncing on one foot and pushing the other with both his hands.
Just as you stepped away from the counter, Brent's face popped up on the upper left corner of your Field of View .
'All done on this side. The connection is untraceable, and the override protocols are in place,' he said. 'I will be performing the maintenance I scheduled to avoid suspicion. Enjoy the race! I will be back once I am finished. Brent, away,' and his face popped out of sight.

Walking down the tunnel's bright blue rug, you could hear through every pressurized door the muffled sounds of drifters being powered up, the rattling of power drills, wrenches hammering on the ground and voices yelling at each other. Approaching the end of the corridor, you found your pit: ''Rogli&Wogli - Darmian Duo'' was written in neon letters on a blue sign next to the metallic door.
The sliding door opened with a sharp hiss, releasing into the corridor a warm concoction of burnt fuel and sweat that had accumulated in the pit. You took a deep breath and allowed the stimulating smell to fill your lungs. 
'Ahh...the addictive smell of fun,' you said to Haji, grinning wide.
Then you rocketed towards your drifter, snatching the first neuroglove from atop a red tool cabinet, and pressing the drifter's canopy button. After it opened, you jumped into the cramped cabin, whose interior was automatically lit by small cockpit lights. Lying in the ergonomic seat, you put on the neuroglove and began calibrating the drifter to meet the racetrack specifications.
Haji entered the pit calmly, with short chubby steps, his boots glistening with the ceiling projector and clanging on the metallic floor as he walked past your drifter and stopped before his. The drifter resembled a projectile with a large propulsion reactor in the back. Bulging just before its tip and nozzle, were two ring-shaped rudders that allowed the pilot to steer it. 
Quietly admiring its plain design, Haji began setting up his drifter without the use of a neuroglove. It was a delicate task that required a tremendous abstraction from oneself, something you were not particularly good at, but Haji had become exceptionally proficient in interacting directly with dream worlds and using thoughts to alter them.
Sitting inside your cockpit, you continued calibrating yours.
'Last race we did relatively well,' you said. 'Up until the part I flew against Tzivo.'
'That was some explosion,' you heard Haji answer. 'We definitely need to defend our approaches to avoid elimination, if you are truly intent on reaching the top three this year.'
 'Defending approaches would surely work against most teams, but not against Zig and Drom. They are just too good,' you said and sighed aloud, struggling to remember the rear ring-rudder calibration. 
Haji's face popped up above your cockpit, his eyes glinting mischievously. 'If we are unable to avoid those two, I suggest we eliminate them.'
You stopped fumbling the neuroglove through the air and looked up at him, brows furrowed in doubt.
'Are you suggesting we race for elimination?' you asked.
'We most certainly will not,' Haji promptly replied. 'We will remain true to our principles and play for a clean victory. But I have a plan to turn their game against them. I want you to upgrade your drifter with reverse thrusters, and when I give you a signal, I want you to activate them.'
You contemplated his suggestion for a moment. 'You and your strategies,' you answered unconcernedly; then you accessed the drifter settings and clicked on the reverse thrusters upgrade. 'Very well, you've never let us down before.'
The countdown blinked and beeped on a timer above the wide access gate. Simultaneously, a game administrator calmly warned, his voice coming from a speaker next to the timer: 
''Everyone, get inside your drifters. Opening gates in one minute.'' Then the voice shouted before being cut off, ''I'm tellin' ya I can place my feet behind my head and still manage t'a---''
Haji put his plump fingers in his gloves and his electric-blue helmet on his grey haired head, 'Enjoy the race,' he said before leaping into his drifter.
'You too,' you said.
You threw the neuroglove away, put on your helmet, and after the opaque canopy sealed you inside your drifter, pressurizing the interior with a soft whistle, the darkened cockpit slowly started to disappear, save for the handlebars and gauges. It soon became practically invisible, enabling you to see the pit all around it. Lying on the translucent seat, you looked down and felt you were floating above the metallic floor half a meter below.
After the pit was depressurized, the gate started to open. As it slowly rose to the ceiling, it unveiled a dark metallic pavement with two parallel orange arrows flashing above it.
You powered up your drifter's engine. It burned through the first injection of liquid fuel and you felt its thrust pull your body against the prone seat. The pavement slid below you, as you smoothly floated into the pit-lane. Looking to your right, you saw Haji's electric-blue drifter hovering alongside yours.

When you cleared your pit-lane and entered the starting line, you were amazed by the spectacular view. Scattered throughout the dark background were galaxies of all sizes and shapes, and countless stars of white, yellow and red. The track itself orbited around a star system, a colossal blue giant orbited both near and far by gaseous planets whose gravities had ensnared countless asteroids, round and lumpy. For every Championship and every track, the backgrounds were re-customized and re-rendered, and you never ceased to be amazed by the endless variety of cosmic sights. This was one of the best you had seen.
''Race begins in five minutes,'' warned the admin's voice, stealing you from your awe.
The glare from the red starting-lights hurt your eyes as you stopped on the already filled starting-grid and studied the positions. On the qualifying session the week before, you had managed to achieve the third position, while Haji achieved the fifth; had there not been a sudden connection failure and you were confident that you would have done better. Your heart pounded heavily when ten pairs of magnetic locks emerged from the dark metallic pavement, firmly clamping the drifters to their respective positions. 
Jets of burning fuel roared from the drifter's exhausts, clouding the space with plumes of red and blue.
''Opening general chat channel,'' said an admin through your helmet's headset.
In order to promote interaction between players, a general communications channel was kept open for the duration of the race. Many used it to gloat when they performed a nice maneuver, but mostly it was used to taunt an opponent with whom a racer was fighting for a position. It was a devious strategy to resort to psychological stress to win, but some players developed such a terrifying aptitude to eliminate opponents on account of provocations, that it became a widely accepted and even crowd-pleasing part of the game.
The moment the channel was opened, a pair of menacing eyes sheltered behind the visor of a chromed red helmet emerged on your HuD .
'Hello, my not so fellow darmians. Ready to get demolished, again?' said a voice with an unusual accent, the vowels strongly over-pronounced.
You sighed. You were never any good at answering to Zigvirat's provocations.
Tzivo, a player from team ''Watch yer' back!'' taunted him in return, 'The only ass gettin' demolished is gonna be yours, Zigvirat.'
'Shuttup!' Zigvirat snarled. 'I ain't talkin' to ya. I's talkin' to our special guests.'
Rist, Tzivo's teammate, threatened, 'Ya oughta watch y'er tone Zig, if ya wanna leave the game in one piece.'
You stepped in unworriedly, 'Don't bother Rist.'
Zigvirat's eyes smiled scornfully, and he mocked, 'Ah...so the pet can speak. I's starting t'a think your almighty daddy had forbidden that as well.'
Haji promptly intervened, 'If you are referring to our Guiding Father the answer is he has not. And I must inform you that any attempt of intimidation will invariably result in a needless waste of your concentration. This time we intend to finish the race, ahead of you.'
Zigvirat's squinty eyes narrowed to the point of seeming closed, 'Ya betta not even try darmian, unless you want to be wiped out, precociously.'
'I assume you mean to say prematurely,' Haji answered. 'If it comes to that, I shall make certain that I take you with me.'
Hovering in front of you, Zig Virat's chrome red drifter spewed irritated jet flames. 
'That is what we shall see,' he threatened with clear pronunciation.
''Sixty seconds boys and girls!'' the admin warned with excitement; the general chat could be heard by every spectator, and as the provocations heated up, they began to place their bets on the winner.
In the relative silence that followed, Haji established a private connection with you, leaving it open so you could share private comments during the race:
'Zigvirat and Dromuzit are going to control your approaches for certain,' you heard his voice coming from behind his blue helmet. 'You must not let their provocations distract you.'
Dromuzit, Zigvirat's overenthusiastic teammate, yelled through the general chat:
'PLACE YER BETS! Who's gonna be the first to turn to dust!'
'I will control the rear line,' added Haji, a calm confidence in his voice. 'All you are required to do is prevent them from placing their drifters alongside yours.'
Deadrun, from team ''Faster than U!'' riposted to Dromuzit's taunt: 
'I gotta feelin' it's gonna be you. Ya gonna drift into the stars, headed for that one up there, the one yellow like yer teeth.'
Zigvirat mocked, 'You just stay last like you always do, Deadrun.'
''Fifteen seconds!'' the admin warned.
'I'M GONNA SMASH YOU TO BITS!' yelled Dromuzit, letting out a hysterical laugh afterwards.
You replied to Haji nervously, 'Easier said than done.'
''10, 9, 8...''
The powerful combustion engines powered up to full throttle, buzzing vibrantly and spewing long torrents of blue fire that stretched several meters along the incandescent grids of the pavement. Across the starting lane, the drifters, whose coloring varied from matte black to electric green, had turned into unstoppable projectiles, eagerly waiting to be released from their magnetic locks. Inside your translucent cockpit, the violent vibration was one jolt away from shredding your drifter to pieces, yet you smiled with joy, pulling the hem of your gloves before softly grabbing the handles next to your knees.
'May the best win,' you said to Haji through the private chat.
'May we be the best,' Haji answered.
''...Three. Two. One!''
When the starting lights turned green, the magnetic locks retracted, and the drifters rocketed away with the sound of roaring thunders. 
Soon, the general chat was flooded with cries of excitement and euphoric laughter as trails of fumes were the only evidence left behind on the scorched starting grid.
Zigvirat swiftly stole the leadership from Rist on the first half-pipe, in a nerve-wracking overtaking that almost threw both out into the void as they rocketed around its edge. His teammate, Dromuzit, launched to fourth position and hastily encroached upon you as you struggled to tame your drifter, your hands tightly clenching the shuddering handles. In contrast, Haji had a soft start. He had lowered his drifter's burn to grant his position to a greedy opponent and dropped down to sixth. You heard Malaq's ecstatic taunt through the general chat as he overtook Haji, spewing his exhaust over his path.
''The Space-Trash Grand Prize has begun,'' said the admin's voice through the loud speakers floating above the track. Immediately afterwards, a high tempo techno thump burst out loud, filling all players with an irresistible need for speed.

Although you were playing in vacuum conditions, visual and sound effects were added to the dream world, and these worked to the amazement of the spectators that watched the race behind the panoramic window of the Race Hall. The floating circuit had the shape of a giant 8 split at the middle into two symmetrical circular platforms separated by one hundred meters of empty space. The curves of the platforms formed an inclined half-pipe which straightened into four flat ramps that ended in two turbopads at the center of the 8. The track had earned its title due to this intersection, for the turbopads boosted drifters to a treacherous flight that crossed trajectory with drifters coming from the perpendicular ramp. A simple miscalculation between two or more racers as they approached the turbopads could result in a collision that would instantly turn them into a dazzling shower of particles. These collisions led to the primary strategy for victory: Elimination, where a player would place their drifter alongside an opponent's and shove them into a collision course with a drifter coming on the perpendicular ramp. It was a vicious strategy, but in drifter races it had become a source for excitement and spectacle, and ultimately, it came to define the purpose of the entire game.
As a result, by dropping down to sixth, Haji intended to form and lead the second group of drifters and ensure your safety by staying in front of the line and forcing the drifters behind to jump after you.

The first five laps were completed without significant events, even though some failed ring-slaps activated the warning for Minor Collision on your HuD. Haji held the leadership of the rear line with ease: he sped along the half-pipes with a calm steadiness and foiled every one of Deadrun's attempts to place himself alongside him. Gradually, the positions were becoming consolidated, forming the two expected groups of drifters. Ten laps into the race, the distance between the two groups became far enough to allow eliminations.
In the front group, Zigvirat was maintaining the first position with unmatched skill, and he meant for everyone to hear his tireless taunts through the general chat, most of them aimed at Rist, who was desperately trying to overtake him.
You ignored his provocations, as you were entirely focused on preventing Dromuzit's relentless attempts to slap your rear rudder. You knew that if he succeeded, you would be in trouble, for Dromuzit's bold configuration favored speed over stability and his plan quickly became evident: once he disabled your ring-rudders he would place himself alongside your drifter and control your approaches. But a simple plan is often a predictable one, so you devised the best way to counter it: you took advantage of your drifter's balanced configuration to maintain the right angle along the half-pipes, and using the rear view display on your HuD, you continuously blocked Dromuzit's drifter whenever he entered the stretch for the ramp.
'Turn on the collision alarm. Eliminations are about to begin,' you heard Haji's voice through the private channel.
Zigvirat was the first to control Rist's approach. On the beginning of the nineteenth lap, he turned his game against him by placing his drifter in front of Rist's and lowering his speed, forcing Rist to either match his speed or attempt an overtake. Rist was so eager to claim first place that he saw it as an opportunity, and so he accelerated to full throttle. After the tight half-pipe, the ramp came into Rist's view. He was side-by-side with Zigvirat when the approach began, but no matter how hard he pressed the pedal, he could not manage to overtake him. The reason was simple: Zigvirat had favored speed in his configuration and could easily match Rist's.
''Collision imminent!'' flashed red in Rist's HuD, foretelling his fate, but he would not let himself be intimidated by his hated opponent: if he were to be eliminated, he would make sure Zigvirat would blow up with him. So, he answered Zigvirat's taunt daringly and fell into his trap. 
The first drifters of the second g - Haji's included - furiously drifted through the space in front of them. In the last instant, side-by-side in full flight, Zigvirat - who had until then been holding back his speed - pushed into full throttle and sprang gloriously ahead of the trajectory of the remaining drifters coming from the perpendicular ramp.
'BOOM!' Dromuzit yelled in general chat, just before the space between the ramps burst in an intense flash that blinded all who were watching.
''Multiple collisions!'' warned the admin's voice through the loudspeakers.
'Alan, are you there?' Haji asked.
'I'm here!' you answered, trembling with excitement. You had rocketed through the blast with your eyes closed and landed almost out of luck on the platform ahead.
''Players eliminated: Rist, Tzivo, Brady; The ''Watch yer' Back!'' team has been eliminated!'' said the admin, followed by a wave of applause and cheers that poured out of the loudspeakers. Zigvirat and Dromuzit added their voices to the cacophony, flooding the general chat with gloat and mockery.
'Zig managed to eliminate three players in one approach!' you said with both astonishment and dread through the private channel. 'And now I'm between him and Drom. Haji you better put your strategy into motion really quick because I'm next!' 
'For now, you just have to prevent them from setting up your approach,' was his calm answer.
'That's easier said than done!' you cried.
You struggled to remain calm while tirelessly steering both handles to coordinate the ring-rudders, holding the unstable equilibrium between positioning and velocity that allowed your drifter to remain permanently in front of Dromuzit's.
During the next five laps, Deadrun and Malaq were eliminated on account of a slight miscalculation from Deeda, Malaq's teammate and the only female player in the competition. She had accidentally blinded him just before the turbopad by crossing her drifter's exhaust in front of him. Malaq had only an instant to yell at her before turning into a spectacular shower of particles. She apologized through the general chat, even though her teammate's avatar was reduced to dust.
'I couldn't have done it better, Deeda,' mocked Zigvirat who had watched the approach by looking straight upwards in one of the inclined half-pipes.
Only half the players remained at the start of the final laps. You were still following Haji's request and trying your best to prevent Dromuzit's attempts to control your approach, but you were gradually becoming outplayed by both your opponents, who coordinated their drifters to encroach on you from both ends.
On the second row, Haji kept Deeda safely under control.
'You are doing well,' he spoke to you in a supportive manner. 'We are nearing our move.'
'It's about time you told me your plan! I'm starting to get tired!' you said.
'And they are becoming overconfident,' he remarked. 'Only two laps remain before the finish. They will try everything to eliminate you before the end, and when they do, I want you to let them.'
'That's your plan?!' you cried. 'Hold out until the final lap only to let them eliminate me before the finish line? I might as well give up now!'
'Stay calm, you are not going to be eliminated,' Haji reassured. 'I just want them to think they have you, right to the last moment, just before the last jump. But when I give you the signal, you activate the reverse thrusters.'
For a second you tried to imagine the outcome of the move; and a second was all the time Dromuzit needed to position his drifter at your right side. When he did, Zigvirat quickly reduced his speed and slid down to your left side. You barely had time to realize what had happened before you were trapped between both.
'Caught in a pinch,' said Zigvirat's pleased voice through the general chat.
Then they both began pinching your drifter, smashing it once, and twice, and thrice. A torrent of sparks sprayed from the electric-blue hull and glittered into space.
'Hey Drom, Lookey here! A fidgety darmian!' Zigvirat yelled, and again he smashed his drifter against yours. 
The crowd cheered when your front ring-rudder was torn from your drifter and floated away into space.
'OOPS!' yelled Dromuzit. 'That had to be important!'
'I've lost all frontal steering,' you warned Haji.
'Let them control your approach,' he replied through the private channel. 'It is time to put our plan into action.'
Haji discretely began to lower his speed, allowing Deeda to move in and overtake him. Once she was alongside him, speeding up to pass, Haji quickly matched her speed and their drifters darted furiously side-by-side towards the turbopad. Zigvirat and Dromuzit saw the dangerous wall that had formed on the perpendicular lane, and they pressed down on your drifter to block your escape. Confident of Haji's strategy, you did not make any effort to avoid them.
'Submitting already, huh?' Zigvirat asked and his voice seemed almost disappointed. 'Being a nice boy like your daddy taught you?'
'LOSER!' cried Dromuzit. 'At least put up a fight!'
They pinched your drifter with theirs and began setting your approach on an interception course with the two drifters climbing up the ramp on the other platform. Deeda buffeted Haji's drifter until the last moment, attempting to intimidate him, but Haji stayed on her side with undisturbed serenity. When her attempts failed, Deeda set up his approach to intercept your drifter's trajectory.
You and Haji sprang into space first, and your drifters whizzed past each other, avoiding collision by a mere strand of hair before all five drifters landed harmlessly on their respective platforms. The race continued to the sound of awe of the spectators.
'DAMN LUCKY!' yelled Dromuzit through the general chat.
Haji was not impressed, nor did he consider it to be luck, for he had calculated everyone's trajectory down to the millimeter.
''It's the Final Lap!'' announced the admin above the thrilled cheers, and the excitement was justifiable for they had not seen such an exciting Space-Trash finale since the dawn of the game.
As they entered the half-pipe, and with their drifters' hulls upgraded to withstand damage, Zigvirat and Dromuzit pinched your drifter without concern. In an outstanding stunt, Zigvirat spun his drifter across the lane performing a 360, and with a short thrust, he picked your rear ring-rudder clean with the tip of his drifter, resuming his course afterwards without even lagging behind.
''Steering disabled. Hull in critical condition,'' the red warning flashed intermittently in your HuD.
'Don't fall apart!' you pleaded to your drifter in response to the ominous sounds of cracking and tearing coming from just about every part of its translucent shell.
The final jump came into Haji's sight. Rays of the giant blue star shimmered on his electric-blue drifter as he started his final approach, hard-pressed against Deeda's electric purple drifter.
'Get ready to activate the reverse thrusters,' you heard him through the private channel.
It was the decisive moment for the remaining five. The Game Hall was teeming with fervent spectators, some with their eyes fixed on the visual projectors, others cramming against the wide window that stooped over the track. On one of the track's platforms, Zigvirat and Dromuzit were overjoyed: they had neutralized your drifter and their victory was soon at hand. On the other, Deeda was struggling to overtake Haji: she would mend her mistake and finish the race in first, even if she had to eliminate all her opponents. 
Haji was relying on just that, and he effortlessly carried out his strategy, matching his speed with hers as both darted side-by-side up the ramp.
''Collision imminent!'' the red caution flashed on the upper view of every player's HuD.
As you came up the ramp to the final jump, Zigvirat and Dromuzit pointed your drifter towards Haji's and Deeda's. Your approach had been too easy to set up. You heard Dromuzit's laughter in the general chat.
The turbopad's edge approached menacingly fast. Your drifter was stuck between theirs. The boundary was almost upon you. In that last split-second before the edge, time slowed down and all your senses were roused to their fullest. The sound of the drifters roared on your ears; your heart pounded in your chest; the slow tempo of the techno beat resonated through your avatar and the smell of burnt fuel flooded your nostrils. Then you heard Zigivirat's mocking aloud on the general chat:
'So long sucka!'
'Now,' you heard Haji's calm voice a split-second after.
You immediately activated the reverse thrusters; Zigvirat and Dromuzit were still pressing against your drifter and their drifters darted towards each other. Almost out of instinct, Zigvirat corrected the trajectory and hit full throttle, springing into space towards the other platform. On the other side, Dromuzit was still laughing maniacally when his drifter veered to the left and was boosted aimlessly towards a star as yellow as his teeth.
Eyes shut tightly, Deeda crossed ahead of Zigvirat while Haji pointed his drifter towards Zigvirat's. 
Full throttle into the flight, Zigvirat could only but stare in dismay as the nose of Haji's drifter flew straight towards his flank. 
He yelled before being cut off, 'Son of a-'
A silent blinding light filled the entire racetrack as the space between the ramps burst into a thunderous explosion that outshone every star and galaxy.
''Multiple collisions!'' yelled both admins.
An eerie silence overcame the entire audience.
Two drifters sprang from the explosion and landed safely on the platforms.
A deafening ovation blew the speakers away, as a large billboard hovering in space flashed with the word ''Outstanding!''.
''Players eliminated: Zigvirat, Dromuzit, and Wogli; How about that! The ''Eliminators'' have been eliminated for the first time!'' said the admin's voice above the deafening noise.
The blinding light slowly faded, unveiling a massive shower of dazzling particles that rained down on the entire track for minutes, many even floating far beyond like shooting stars falling into the void. The sight was a magnificent reward granted to the two drifters that crossed the finish line, which was a wall of light that burst into sparkling fireworks.
''We have a winner! Rogli from the team Darmian Duo! Second place goes to our deeellectable Deeeda from team Metal Kitty! All remaining players eeeliminated!'' yelled the admin.
'YESS!' you shouted inside your drifter, your avatar trembling with excitement. 'We did it!'
You savored the moment with a victory lap on your tattered and steerless drifter, trundling it along the half-pipes, allowing their curvature to lead you along the track. After the seemingly endless applause subsided into cheerful murmuring, you exited the track with the ''Return to pit'' command. As you dematerialized, your drifter turned into dust that scattered towards the stars, leaving behind an empty, battered, and scorched racetrack.

Back on the pit, Haji was waiting for you. After you emerged from the Avatar Materialization and Matter Translocation Pad , your avatar encircled with twirling specks of light, he greeted you with a low bow.
'I assume congratulations are in order,' he said in his warm voice.
'Did you plan this from the beginning?!' you asked with amazement as you stopped before his small avatar.
He looked up at you and smiled. 'Not quite,' he answered, knowing the time to reveal his plan had come. 'I did not mean to collide with Zigvirat. I intended to force his elimination with Deeda but when you lost both ring-rudders I realized that my plan would not succeed. So as an alternative, I allowed Deeda to skid past me at the turbopad, thus preventing Zigvirat and Dromuzit's attempt to direct you towards us, and then I flew against Zigvirat, thus preventing him from achieving victory. Furthermore, I was confident that Dromuzit would eliminate himself in that moment of distraction, which he eventually did, and since you were in the leading group, my sacrifice ensured your victory.'
With the adrenaline still rushing through you, you only managed to understand half of what he said. His strategy had been so effectively implemented that you asked, 'Have you ever considered becoming an Overseer?'
Haji shrugged and smiled. 'It is not a role I wish to perform,' he said. Then, he pointed towards the airtight door that led to the corridor. 'Come, it is time to claim your reward.'

Outside the pit, a loud commotion was coming from the Race Hall at the end of the tunnel. Its entrance was congested with players and spectators sharing in laughter and conversations. As you walked up the corridor and approached the crowd, Zigvirat and Dromuzit stepped in front of you, blocking your path. Their avatars were practically identical: tall, bulky, and ridiculously brawny, giving the peculiar appearance that their tight red tracksuits were one size too small. Their skin was overly pinkish, and their hair was flaxen, short, and curly; their facial bone structure was excessively protruded. All in all, they looked so ridiculous that you were led to assume they had made a terrible miscalculation when creating their avatars and were not aware of the ''undo'' command.
They stared at you with stern faces, their eyes kindled with anger.
Zigvirat narrowed his eyes and spoke, his facial muscles filled with tension, 'In Remgast we have a saying: only a loser upgrades his drifter with reverse thrusters.'
You did not answer. You stood your ground, staring at him defiantly; your avatar was no less imposing than his. From the tension that followed you were almost certain that a brawl was about to start. But, just as you were about to punch him in the face in a pre-emptive attempt to finish him off quickly, he bowed graciously.
'Congratulations for the victory,' he snarled through gritted teeth.
He raised his head and eyed Haji with contempt, 'Wogli, your move was unexpected. It seems that you are beginning to learn the purpose of this game. It's about time.'
Haji bowed courteously. 'It is only a matter of knowing your opponent. However, you should have suspected. I warned you that if I were to lose, you would lose with me.'
Zigvirat sneered, 'Even if I lost, you lost too, and yer teammate only beat Dromuzit with luck.'
'I am not surprised that you think that way,' said Haji. 'The highest precision in calculating an approach may pass as luck to the unaware mind.'
It was clear that Zigvirat was trying to understand his statement. He stared at him emptily, an awkward twitch on his lips revealing the enormous intellectual effort that was taking place. Then, seeming that he had finally grasped the meaning, he loomed his tall, muscled avatar over Wogli's short chubby avatar. 
'Are ya sayin' I'm stupid?' he asked menacingly. 'How about I smack your ass back to your daddy and teach you how we solve things in Remgast?'
Drawn to the commotion, the crowd nearing the entrance to the hall formed a half circle around you. A fight was always the perfect way to end a race, and some of them began to chant repeatedly, ''Brawl! Brawl! Brawl!''
Out of nowhere, Brent's stern face popped up in front of you.
'Time is running short,' he said with unease. 'If you start a fight, I'll have to pull you out. Better get your cup instead.'
Immediately after it disappeared, you stepped in and gently pushed Zigvirat and Haji aside.
'Zigvirat, this is only a game,' you said, calming yourself down. 'We're here to have fun, not to break teeth or bones, real or not.'
'Says the pompous winner that wants t'a fetch his prize,' Dromuzit added with a crazed grin.
Zigvirat frowned at you. Then, he poked Haji's head with one large index finger, 'You're lucky your buddy stepped in.'
'Once more, it was not luck,' Haji calmly answered. 'I knew he would, even though he did not have to.'
Zigvirat tossed his hand in the air and snarled, 'Bahh...I'm not wastin' my time with your kind,' then he frowned at Haji. 'Be it gastian or darmian, you telepaths are all the same arrogant bastards.'
He turned his back and walked into the crowd, leaving you and Haji behind, blinking at each other.
'What did he say?' Haji asked, utterly confused.
'The telepath part or the bastard part?' you asked.
'Both.'
You shrugged, 'We should ask Brent.'
Haji nodded, 'Let us get your cup before that,' he said and trotted into the Race Hall, leading the way through the dispersed crowd.

Moments later, you were surrounded by the cheering mob: there were the players, still wearing their race suits, the game administrators, who were still discussing about avatar's feet and noses and ears, and many spectators who had watched the race and were now forming a circle around Deeda. 
Once the winners were formally announced, you and Deeda stepped up to the podium that had taken the place of the counter in front of the panoramic window. 
As the crowd cheered, the administrators handed the cups to both of you. They were simple in concept: a flat and round bottom and an arm-shaped bar, yours crafted in diamond and Deeda's in gold, but on top of the bar was a wide-open hand holding a transparent spherical orb, and inside the orb was a miniature Space-Trash racetrack, endlessly replaying the race with its miniscule drifters racing about its eight shaped circuit and jumping in space from platform to platform. Occasionally, a flash of light would erupt from it.
Then the skinny admin spoke, as if reciting a rehearsed speech, 'These Dream Cups represent the Awards for this year's Champions of the Space-Trash Grand Prize. They will forever remain in display in the trophy stands of your pits,' then he added as a joke. 'Don't let the dust settle!'
Loud applause filled the hall. Deeda lifted her cup and pointed it to Malaq, screaming repeatedly, ''This one is for you baby!''
You lifted your cup and let out a truly pleased smile. Standing before so many unknown gastians who lauded you without reserve was an overwhelming sense of accomplishment. It was the first cup you had won, and you owed it to your teammate and best friend.
 ...happiness...I had forgotten how it feels...
'And now's the time to party!' said one of the tall admin. 
He clapped his hands twice and the hall's walls and ceiling disappeared, granting an outstanding view of the starry space.
You climbed down from the podium and presented your cup to Haji; he received it with a smile on his chubby face. Almost immediately afterwards you crossed the crowd of gastians and entered the spawning pad. 
You looked back, already regretting having to leave, and took some time to cherish that last moment, where you saw and heard everyone enjoying themselves, sparkling chalices in their hands, whose liquid contents twirled and rippled like a miniature-whirlpool. Many chatted amusedly, others gazed at the stars and galaxies, and others watched the highlights of the race, replayed by holographic drifters speeding along the racetrack below. Deeda was chatting with one of the administrators, next to Malaq, who was showing off their golden cup to everyone. Then, leaning on a wall, were Zigvirat and Dromuzit, looking back at you with a peaceful smile. Zigvirat lifted his chalice towards you and drank in your homage.
'It's been a pleasure, Rogli and Wogli,' said Zigvirat, and his voice was now kindly.
'Until our next race,' you answered and grinned wickedly.
'Until then.'
You had already realized that their tough and rude attitude was just for show and intimidation. Deep down, he was just like you: a friendly young pyrean trying to enjoy his existence the best he could and having fun doing so.
'If only I could stay...' you whispered to yourself.
And your avatar vanished from that place, never to return.

You slowly opened your eyes, a bittersweet smile on your face. You leaned forward and greeted Brent, who congratulated you and complimented Haji for the cunning plan that had earned you the victory. He had watched the end of the race on the holoscreens behind your chairs and was absolutely delighted with the outcome. 
After powering down the terminals and crossing the liquefied wall that separated the Shelter from Darm, he and Haji continued the conversation with enthusiasm: 
'I lost count of the times you were close to being eliminated!' he said.
'It was an intense race,' Haji stated, a simple smile on his face.
You were quietly following them behind, your attention focused inward. 
During the silence that followed, you asked, 'Brent, what's a telepath?'
Walking up the stairwell, Brent tripped on one step but quickly regained his balance.
'And a bastard,' Haji added.
Arriving at the ground floor of the facility, he stopped and frowned at both of you, 'You're not meant to know,' he said sternly.
'Can we ask the gastians?' you said.
'No,' he promptly answered. 'This was the agreement when you joined the Shelter.'
You nodded, giving him an absentminded stare. You were too tired to insist.
After the maintenance door was tightly sealed behind, you carefully trudged through the cold streets of the Manufacturing Sector. A clouded night was settling over Darm, and a chilling breeze hissed through the nooks of the factories. Rest Time was all but spent and the streets were utterly silent.
Hiding in the alley between the two last facilities before the East Boulevard, Brent took his leave with a discrete bow, 'Go through the residential cloisters and stay out of sight.'
You and Haji nodded.
You were about to step into the Boulevard when Brent spoke, 'One last thing. The Shelter is going to be closed for a couple of weeks. I'll let you know when you can come back.'
'Will it be open by the time of the next race?' you asked with concern.
He shrugged, his hands in the pockets of his yellow jacket, 'I can't say.'
Looking at his uneasy posture, you were not convinced that he was uncertain, and you felt that he was trying to keep himself from explaining the reason.
He looked at the dismay in your face and rubbed your hair with his big hand, 'Don't worry. I won't forget about your race,' he said and grinned wickedly.
'You better not!' you replied, grinning back.
'Well, today was fun. Be safe,' he said and walked on alone, across the luminous warm Boulevard that separated the two sectors.

After a short disquieting stroll that felt too long, you and Haji arrived at the crossroads that led to your residences. You were weary but pleased.
'Have a nice rest and see you tomorrow at the Academy,' you said before leaving.
'Are you forgetting the meeting?' Haji asked just as you turned to leave.
You let out a sigh through the facemask - you had forgotten about it. You were so pleased with the victory that you felt that your tiresome day had come to a suitable ending. All you wanted now was the quiet comfort of your room.
You threw him a weary scowl, 'Do we really have to? I'm tired and I still want to inquire Mother about some things.'
'Well, I told Sophie I was going, so I have to,' then he added with a pleased voice, 'and I want to. As for you, you would do well to come. Cathy will be assigning tasks for the Gathering and your presence is needed.'
You probed your mind to read the time on your Unit. Dinner Time was coming soon and if you were to go, you would have to go now.
'All right,' you sighed and added discretely, 'I'll go to my residence and let Mother know I'm up. Meet you here in ten minutes?'
'Certainly,' Haji said before bowing and parting in the opposite way.

...Brent was a friend...
He was more than that, as you will come to remember. You enjoyed being with each other very much and Brent always tried to watch as many of your races as he could, despite having to perform the extraordinary maintenance. The first race he ever saw you play was an exciting memory he kept fondly, even if you and Haji had suffered an utter defeat. With some pride, he would consider himself your game mentor and he often offered you suggestions for bold and daring moves. The moments he cherished the most was talking with you after the races, and he savored your every smile of joy, for he felt he was giving you the opportunity to enjoy your life.
...he carried the fate of those who are born to follow...yet he found a path of his own...
Fourth memory - At the East Retreat

Even though social interaction is irrelevant to the accomplishment of the metropolis' purpose, the Pyre's social heritage demands that darmians be granted the possibility to engage in such activities. As a result, four public establishments shall be built at convenient locations and equipped with all the necessary commodities. These Retreats, as they will be named, shall be available after Labor Time, and they shall grant the darmian a place to fraternize without supervision, the sole requirement being that they follow the Directives for social interaction. Although optional, their implementation is strongly advised, for all preliminary experiments reveal an increase in productivity of twenty percent on the experimental group, as opposed to the control group, which when deprived of social interaction revealed a decline of thirteen percent in productivity and an increase in suicide rates.

An excerpt from Annex #15: Extraordinary contingencies; 
Division of Darmian Affairs under the authority of Mentalist Silas;


You and Haji arrived at the East Retreat a while into Dinner Time. It was an out-of-the-way establishment, encompassing the entirety of the base of the gigantic East Magnetization Tower. Snow had started to fall, and as you walked along the retreat's round window-wall, you saw through the shaded permaglass several pairs of citizens and apprentices sitting and chatting inside many booths. Sophie was there, inside one of the booths. Cathy and Jack were there too, sitting across the table from her. Ever since the start of apprenticeship did your feelings for them grow. Now, gazing at them from outside the window, it came to you how fond you had become of your friends. The more you thought about what they meant to you, the more the desire to rest faded.
The cuddled entrance was facing the sea. There was a luminous sign above it with the holographic words ''East Retreat'' tinting the snow with shades of green.
Entering the round antechamber, you brushed off the thin layer of snow from your green uniform. Once the temperature matched the warm twenty degrees inside the retreat, the round door blocking your path slid into the wall. 
You entered the acclimatized hall, approached the broad counter at the center and greeted Colt, its administrator. He did not pay you much attention, seeming rather immersed in his customary task: watching the weekly bulletin displayed on one of the holoscreens attached to the large central pillar while mindlessly cleaning a spotless cup with a stainless cloth.
'Salutations.' you said. 
Colt nodded. His eyes were fixed on the holoscreen.
You leaned over the counter and Haji leaned at your side and all three watched the weekly bulletin. It was being presented by a female darmian with a tidy appearance and straight brown hair pulled behind her ears. Her voice was sharp and pleasant: 
''On Vanguard lunoid station, progress with the research conducted on the immunization of single cell organisms has reached an unprecedented breakthrough. After extensive manipulation of genetically modified cells, Project Specialists succeeded in reversing the mutations caused by the retrovirus PIn-T2. Result analysis suggests that this process can be replicated, and Specialists are confident that the research is close to eradicating the retrovirus from the Pyre genome. Our Guiding Father grants us his words on the subject:''
The elder countenance of Gadim emerged on the holoscreen. His short white hair was combed back, and his hazel eyes smiled kindly. He spoke with a mellow albeit firm voice, seeming that all his years of life had done nothing to spoil his vigor, granting him unparalleled resolve instead.
''This accomplishment serves to demonstrate our commitment to achieve Darm's purpose. It acknowledges Darm as the most advanced society ever created and acknowledges the efficiency of the Darmian Directives as well. Citizens and apprentices of Darm, we are nearing the end of the suffering that has devastated the Pyre since the dawn of the Age of Obscurity. As your Guiding Father, I commend you for your vital efforts in upholding our Prime Directive: Order ensures Progress.''
His face disappeared and the speaker moved on to less important reports.
Haji looked at you, 'It appears that your caretaker has made significant progress with the research,' he said.
The statement ignited Colt's curiosity. He halted his compulsive cleaning and looked at you, his dark eyes staring at you in expectation.
'It appears indeed,' you answered, tapping the counter, letting slip an embarrassed smile, dividing your attention between the two pairs of eyes. When their silent gaze became an off-putting stare you added, 'I don't know anything! She doesn't tell me anything!'
Your answer drowned Colt's curiosity. With one swift turn of the head, he returned to his endless task of rotating the cup with one hand and scrubbing it with the other.
You did not bother to bid your leave. You and Haji stepped away from the counter and headed down the corridor along the circular rows of booths. Most of them were occupied by weary citizens, others by apprentices engaged in conversations behind transparent soundproof domes. At the southernmost end of the establishment, you found Sophie, Cathy, and Jack - they seemed to be in a cheerful mood. Once Sophie saw Haji, she found room for him to sit.
The round booth was composed of one cushioned bench coated with a red hued fabric and a circular table crammed in the middle. You sat nearest to the retreat's window while Haji and Sophie sat next to you. Cathy and Jacky remained seated at the opposite side.
Jack smiled at you and spoke in a self-satisfied tone, 'Great intervention today, Alan. Tell us what happened after we left. Did mentor Levine invite you to a private indoctrination in her residence?' he asked, a smug smile on his face.
You looked at him and smiled. You had not just won a drifter race to let your friend's taunt discomfort you, 'You know how it is. Some are born to impress; others are born to be impressed.'
Jack combed his dense blond hair with one hand, his lips casting a smile as big as his face, 'You are right on that one,' he said. 'But you are not doing that bad. And if you need some hints, you know you can count on me.'
Cathy gave him an incredulous stare, 'He was talking about you Jacky. What he meant to say is that he is the one born to impress, and you are the one impressed.'
You chuckled, while Sophie and Haji remained oblivious to the conversation - they were sharing intimate smiles and speaking quietly with one another.
'So, you want to compete then?' Jack answered, his brows furrowing defiantly above his light-blue eyes. 'I hope you realize that you are no match for my impressiveness.'
He leaned back in the seat and sprawled his arms, wrapping one around Cathy's slender shoulders - she turned her head and flared her nostrils, seeming that she had smelled something unpleasant.
'You'd lose,' you objected, widening a proud smile.
Cathy pushed Jack's arm aside and chimed in, 'Please behave. There are other citizens here.'
Jack looked at Cathy with a false look of guilt, 'We were just kidding. Alan knows it. Right?' he asked, glancing at you.
'All I know is that I'm going to order something. I'm starving,' you said, answering to the rumbling in your stomach.
'I will order as well,' Haji intervened, interrupting his conversation with Sophie.
Lying flat on the center of the table was a holoprojector displaying an interactive menu of the establishment. You identified yourself by waving your forearm over it. Using Thought Interaction, you ordered your desired food: two nutrient bars and a vitamin shake. After taking your order, the center of the table opened, and your order was lifted on top of a tray from the opening. You picked up the tray and the holoscreen slid to its place with the notice ''Have a pleasant meal.'' floating inside it.
After Haji ordered and received his meal, the thin dome-shape curtain lowered over the booth, enclosing you and your friends inside it. Then the calm and tranquilizing voice of Mother spoke, ''Please select a theme.''
'Tropical beach!' shouted Sophie above Cathy and Jack; you could not care less as you chewed on one of the nutrient bars.
''Theme selected: Tropical beach. Have a pleasant Dinner Time,'' said Mother.
'Aww...again, Sophie?!' complained Cathy, softly banging her head on the table and then pushing her curly red bangs aside as she looked at Sophie, 'Next time it is my turn!'
Sophie's auburn eyes brightened, and she nodded joyfully.
As if it had become a live painting, the dome-shaped curtain turned into a sand filled beach encircled by an endless ocean with a clear blue sky above. The sparkling waves calmly embraced the shores in relaxing comings and goings, wetting the glittering sand.
Cathy sighed, as the relaxing sound of waves washed over the booth accompanied by a calm breeze. Then, she began, 'Now that we are all here, it is time to get started. As you all know, five weeks from now we will no longer be apprentices. For that reason, I made a request to the Council of Mentalists that this year the Gathering take place in my suite, and earlier this morning my caretakers and I received the authorization from Mentalist Silas.'
Scraping the bottom of your empty cup with a straw, you gazed at Cathy with curiosity. Mentalist Silas was the Head of Darmian Affairs and would not have allowed a Gathering to take place in a private habitation under normal circumstances.
'That is great!' cheered Jack.
'Will any Council representatives be attending?' Haji asked.
'Yes,' answered Cathy. 'One of the conditions imposed by Mentalist Silas is that we are to be supervised by Overseers.'
The bubbling echo coming from your cup went silent.
'That is not so great,' said Jack, hanging his head.
'Well, it was either that or having the Gathering at the Academy as is customary,' Cathy added.
As you listened, you could not help but feel frustrated that the gastians had the liberty to entertain themselves without any supervision, while darmians could not even have a formal event in a private suite without the Council of Mentalists prying into it. You put down your vitamin shake and before you gave it any thought you complained, 'This isn't right. The Council treats us like we're still infants. We can't even celebrate our turn to citizenship without having to be supervised?'
The answer came from Sophie, 'Alan, Mentalist Silas is opening an unprecedented exception. In return, all he asks is that our Gathering be supervised. What more do you ask?'
Cathy added kindly, 'It is only understandable, Alan. Mentalist Silas will appoint Overseers simply to ensure our safety. Our Guiding Father is a great visionary who created this metropolis to help the Pyre and the Mentalists are doing a remarkable effort in maintaining it in order.'
Sophie scolded, 'And if you had been more attentive to Demography and History doctrines you would know that every pyrean outside Darm is struggling for their mere survival against the Torment and against the harsh environmental conditions. Our Guiding Father has saved us from all this.'
...ignorant trusting fools...
You knew for a fact that, for the very least, Remgast was a place where neither the Pyre's genetic flaw nor the freezing temperatures stopped them from having a joyous existence. You looked at Haji's concerned gaze, knowing he was worried that you would lose your temper and tell them what you had been doing that afternoon. But he needed not worry - you would not be so reckless - but you would not sit by either, when your friends were being deceived, 'Everything they tell us in those doctrines serves to make us believe that Darm is the only place on Artica that is unaffected by the Torment,' you said. 'How can you accept their word without searching for proof?'
Sitting between you and Sophie, Haji quietly listened to your argument, realizing that he would soon have to pick sides between the two darmians he cared for the most.
'We are given have all the proof we need,' Sophie intervened, staring at you harshly. 'And I think the only reason you are so suspicious about the Council of Mentalists is because you blame them for not having two caretakers. And you spend so much time alone in your residence that you feel the need to go out and breach the Directives just so you feel better. But the worst part is that you take Haji with you,' she added in a bitter tone.
You turned your eyes to the soothing sea and fell into a brooding silence. Sophie had spoken her heart much out of concern for the well-being of Haji, you knew, but you could not help but feel that she was right. You were filled by an overwhelming sadness, and even though you were surrounded by your friends, you felt alone.
Realizing she had said more than she needed to prove her point, Sophie broke the silence, 'Alan, my apologies. I did not mean to say that.' she said, and her voice sounded as remorseful as the look in her eyes.
You allowed a sad smile to brighten your face, 'It's okay Sophie. I know you worry for Haji's sake,' you said, and a feeling of joy washed away your sadness when you remembered a comforting fact, 'besides, I don't live alone. I have Evander and Hampy to keep me company.'
Jack looked sideways at Cathy, 'An overzealous host and an outdated droid are hardly any company,' he murmured audibly and snickered.
Cathy stomped his foot under the table, 'It is a lot better than having you as a friend!'
You were starting to feel uncomfortable and wanted to move the spotlight that had fallen upon you, 'But you're right Sophie, when you say I shouldn't involve Haji.'
Haji widened his eyes at you, anticipating what you were going to say. He knew you too well.
'However,' you added, grinning at him wickedly. 'I do think he is entitled to an opinion.'
Haji looked down and shrank in his seat, hoping the conversation would fade into thoughtless remarks.
'You are right Alan,' said Sophie, a shrewd look in her eyes. 'What is your opinion, Haji?' 
Haji opened his mouth as if to speak but stopped. He did not want to pick sides, for he knew that if he did, his action would reinforce one relationship in detriment of the other. So, he glanced around, saw the restless look in Cathy's face, and hastily crafted a solution that would allow him to dodge the question - assuming Cathy would intervene as he expected her to.
'Well...in my opinion... - you and Sophie looked at him expectantly - I think being supervised by Overseers will do just fine.'
'Precisely!' Cathy stepped in, throwing a finger in the air. 'Thank you, Haji!'
He breathed a sigh of relief, as Sophie frowned at him and you looked away, into the virtual sea that surrounded the booth.
'I am glad I finally had an opportunity to step in,' Cathy added. 'This discussion was making me feel really uncomfortable. You two should know best not to have this kind of conversation. Dissent is a violation of the Prime Directive.'
'My apologies, Cathy. You are absolutely correct,' Sophie answered.
'We have completely diverted from our topic and needlessly allowed ourselves to upset one another. Alan?' Cathy called you.
You were distracted, listening to the sound of the waves crashing into the beach and thinking about what Sophie had said. When you heard her, you gave her a weary absent look, 'My apologies, Cathy. Go on.'
'Now, let's continue planning the Gathering,' she added.
'Let's do it!' said Jack, slapping his hands on the table and bouncing on the seat, catching everyone by surprise. 'We have a Gathering to prepare. And it is going to be fantastic!'
Cathy had previously arranged a list of tasks she intended to divide amongst her friends in accordance with the knowledge each possessed. She took her neuropad from her utility belt and unrolled it on the table.
'Alan and Haji, I need you to create the printing device's procedures for the props that will be decorating the suite and the costumes we will be wearing,' she said.
You nodded absentmindedly and turned your attention to the blue sea. Haji, however, in his eagerness for solving every complex situation he was confronted with, quickly began drawing a mental sketch of the instructions required to insert into the device that would print out the props and costumes in full color and shape.
'Jacky, have you spoken to your caretaker about the appetizers?' Cathy asked next.
Jack stretched his arm around her and released his huge glinting smile, 'Obviously. The appetizers are being created in the Second Quadrant Manufacturing Facility, where they will be stored and await the day they shall merrily journey into your delightful mouth.'
She pulled his arm away, 'Charming.' Then she turned her attention to Sophie, 'In that case all that remains is our part: choosing the theme.'
'I think Tropical is the best choice,' Sophie risked the suggestion, pouting her lips.
'Oh no! No more Tropical!' said Cathy.
'But it's so pleasant, so warm and so full of light! It's how the Island of Retirement must look like,' she said and turned her eyes to the tranquil beach behind Cathy and Jack.
'You will have plenty of time to stay on the island after you fulfill your goals as a citizen. Retirement is still one too many decades away,' said Cathy. 'I was thinking of a more intriguing theme: the animals from the Age of the Antiga Pyre. I've been to the Historic Records this afternoon and I browsed through some of the species. They were fascinating,' she added, her amber eyes staring blankly at the blue sky, 'quite fascinating.'
You and your friends shared a dull stare. 
As Cathy and Sophie chattered between themselves about which theme was the best, you had a calm conversation with Haji and Jack. Twice Jack interrupted their conversation to offer an uninformed opinion, mostly suggestions of sleazy costumes for the female apprentices.
'Why do you spend time choosing a theme?' he said slyly after they dismissed his suggestions countless times. 'Simple and light garments would do fine and are far less cumbersome. Why put so much thought into it?'
They utterly ignored him.

Sophie's initial disappointment regarding Cathy's choice had turned into eager anticipation, as Cathy explained to her some of her ideas for the costumes. After a tiresome hour, they had finally decided on the theme. Then, they moved on to the selection of the props for the suite, and as their conversation prolonged, you became increasingly drowsy. You started to insist on leaving, lightly elbowing Haji, who in turn elbowed you back. Jack was snoring already, his head lying on the back of the seat and a thin line of saliva dripping down the red coating from his partly opened mouth. Cathy and Sophie were still tirelessly discussing the theme, when Colt announced, with the precision of a clock, that the time had come to close the establishment. You thanked the moment. 
When you left the Retreat alongside your friends, you guided your weary feet upon the snow-laden Coastal Walkway, whose path faded into the night. Beyond, was the vast darkness of the sea, whose frozen waters already slept quietly.
Cathy and Jack bid their leave and climbed onto a platform, catching the Panoramic Way to the tall skyscrapers of the Specialist Class Sector. You and your remaining friends followed down the East Boulevard until entering one of the main roads of the Administrator Class Sector. After bowing and wishing them a pleasant evening, you turned to your street and pursued your path towards a good night's rest. Haji and Sophie lived on the same block of residences, and so they trudged down their street together, chatting quietly.
Each block was composed of an agglomerate of adjunct residences. They were identical in every aspect, something that usually confused you when returning to your residence at night. Were it not for your own personalized front entrance, and you would have skipped it, as you walked down the street. Even with the dim light coming from the streetlamps, you managed to perceive an untended patio that had disappeared under a meter of snow along with its chairs and table. You pushed the knee-height gate aside and stepped inside, dragging your legs through the snow. Beneath your narrow porch you glanced at the tidy terrace from the adjacent residence, the Sylvere's residence, and grimaced.
You looked at the silvery lunoids above, 'I hope Miriam can't see this from above,' you whispered, sighed, and entered.

The day had ended, and so you lied in bed and slept. And in due time, for Sleep Time had fallen upon Darm and every darmian was required to rest. So, rest you did, unaware that you had woven one more thread into the fabric of destiny that would lead you to where you stand now. I cannot help but wonder. If you had known the consequences, would you have still fallen asleep during that History indoctrination? Or answered to mentor Levine the way you did?
...I do not regret my actions...
Indeed you do not, for now...
Fifth memory - Anatomy of a virus

[...] and the economy shall be based on the awarding and removal of Credits, the sole currency of the metropolis. The sentient Artificial Intelligence shall continuously monitor the performance of every darmian, from their early stage as an infant up to their final stage as a citizen, and regardless of the stage, the better a darmian will be at performing his tasks, the greater the Credits she shall award them with. As a result of this economic system, the sentient AI shall be able to maintain a stable balance between the requirements and aptitudes of its inhabitants, ensure equal opportunities to everyone, and instill in them from an early age a reward-based mentality that shall greatly enhance productivity.

An excerpt from Annex #03: Currency and Reward Directives; 
Division of Darmian Affairs under the authority of Mentalist Silas;


The next week flew by as the expectations regarding citizenship grew. The turn to citizenship was a decisive event for all darmians, for it was the moment they were required to choose the occupation they would perform for the rest of their existence. Therefore, along with your growing expectation, grew an even greater dread, for you had not yet decided on an occupation that would award your existence with a sense of accomplishment. You hoped however, that when the time came, you would make the right choice, and the Gathering was just the right occasion to find some inspiration, as it represented your last opportunity for entertainment, and maybe one of the last moments you had to enjoy your time with many of your colleagues. As the week stretched on, one day was left before the day of the Gathering.
That morning, the metropolis awoke to the usual sound of citizens flowing in the streets and Boulevards, on their way to their occupations, like orderly rivers coursing through ridges of tall permaglass. Most of them were on foot and all were distinguishable by the color of their uniforms: green for apprentices, yellow for Manufacturing and Spaceport administrators, violet for Hub administrators and mentors, and white for the elite citizens, the Project Specialists. These bore stern faces; their tall, slender bodies clad in white filing over the white marbled pavement as an embodiment of the metropolis herself.
As you strolled down the colorful East Boulevard with a nutrient bar in one hand, you felt the presence of your Unit as she warned you of a communications request from Haji. You conveyed the thought to accept it, and you felt your mind expand beyond your thoughts.
'If you do not slow down, we will not be able to catch up with you,' Haji's faceless voice echoed in your mind.
'Where are you?' you thought as if you were speaking to him.
'Look behind you,' his voice answered.
You looked back and Haji and Sophie saw ten meters away, dressed in their green uniforms, walking through the myriad of colors. You stopped and waited for them, taking the last bite on the nutrient bar, which was becoming as cold and tasteless as snow.
'Salutations, Haji,' you greeted each one with a bow. 'Salutations, Sophie.'
Since the day Haji revealed his affection for her in the Academy hallway - however indirect as it might have been - he and Sophie had become close companions. At times they would exchange smiles and laughter, and even an occasional hug whenever they were out of sight of sentinels and of the draconian scrutiny of Council representatives, for any gesture of intimacy was deemed as unnecessary body contact as was considered a breach of the Directives for proper conduct.
'Salutations, Alan,' Sophie cordially replied. 'Ready for a new day of indoctrination?'
You nodded, demonstrating an odd enthusiasm for the perspective, 'As ready as I can be.'
As you strode on, walking behind a straight line of mentors and apprentices entering the Academy, you whispered to Haji with a sidelong glance, 'The Gathering is tomorrow.'
'I know,' he answered smiling.
Walking past the two dark-blue sentinels guarding its western entrance, you entered the vast white plaza. Before you, was a majestic, curved building with its inner facade facing the Netcore. Like all buildings in Darm, its surface was covered in permaglass, save for the tall frame that sustained it, which was made of glinting impermium .
Climbing its wide stairway and crossing the wide-open doors, you followed the two orderly rows of apprentices entering the building. Although you were many, you did not hear a sound when you entered the hallway, save for the sound of footsteps on its pristine marble floor.
