Haji looked at himself in the mirrored wall, turning from one side to the other, seeing his long brown tail with a dark tuft at the end. He picked it up with his right paw and felt its fluffy fur; then he patted the ruffs of fur falling from the sides of his chin and smiled.
'Remarkable,' he said as he gazed at his feline face, his dark nose, and tufted ears.
'My turn!' you said and eagerly entered the device.
When Haji selected Ailuropoda melanoleuca and pressed the initiate command, a flashing red light lit inside the chamber. You gently closed your eyes before you were engulfed by a warm and odorless water vapor. As you stood very still, the makeover cycle began anew and worked the same way it did with Haji, only this time it took longer to finish, much longer. The build of your animal was large and bulky, and many more layers of silicon had to be added to complete it. Your legs and arms swelled and swelled to three times their thickness and your chest and head became chubbier. When the hardening and coloring layer was applied and the blowing air subsided, the door opened, and you emerged from inside the cylinder. You were so large that you were barely able to cross the narrow opening with your black and white pelt.
Haji was widening a merry smile. 'You have put on some mass,' he said.
'I can feel it,' you answered and gave him a chubby smile back.
You examined yourself in the mirror. Your chest and head were coated in white fur while your arms and legs were coated in black. A pair of dark tufted ears that seemed more like fluffy lumps had sprung from atop your forehead and your eyes were encircled in black rings of fur. You were just like as you had imagined, and you felt it a well-deserved reward for putting so much effort into creating the procedures for the attires.
'We are ready,' you told Haji and gave him a feral grin.
'Without question,' he said and grinned back.

When you entered the suite's common room, you were immediately awed by the decoration and the countless number of apprentices coated with animal attires. Before you, was a tall vast hall with four supporting columns as large as the ones from the lobby, but these were covered by display curtains, the same type used in the Retreat's booths. These took on the guise of brown tree bark, whereas the curtains on the ceiling and the floor were correspondingly dark green and grassy green, which gave the columns the appearance of trunks of trees and the ceiling and floor of leaves and grass. On the four corners of the vast hall were large tables filled with appetizers and hundreds of apprentices were snacking around them, wearing the most unusual animal attires. Others were enjoying the marvelous sight beyond the round window-wall that comprised the entire outer wall of the hall. Beyond it, the air outside was already thick with snow.
 'This is quite impressive,' Haji said.
You heard him, but your mind was turned to your surroundings, ands as you wandered inside the hall, eyes widened, you felt a hazy sensation of familiarity with the forest projected onto the display curtains, with the animal attires walking about, with the soft verdant fragrance being conveyed into your Unit by scent-inducing brainwaves. The boundaries of reality blurred and mingled with the faint reminiscence of something you had long dreamt. Every detail seemed to represent the scent and look of things long gone, things that were claimed by fate and vanished, never to return.
...I see trees as tall as towers...I breathe the soft smell of flowers...I sink into the green and blue...and I am reborn anew...
Words that shall forever be remembered. For, you see, there is a bond between all life that cannot be severed by indoctrinations or split apart by great walls. Even if neither of you had ever seen a tree nor felt the fragrance of nature, you shared a connection to them, and it felt to you, that the decoration was as real as life.
'Alan?' Haji called you.
You looked at him absentmindedly. 'What?'
'I said, Cathy put the suite to good use,' he repeated.
'She did...indeed,' you said, even though you still did not pay attention.
Walking towards a great round table at the center, an apprentice attired with an imposing animal prowled towards you and Haji and blocked your way, raising his arms up high and arching his fingertips as if they were retractable claws. He was enveloped in a long mantle of golden fur and had a huge thick mane on his head with two pointy ears perching from it at the top. His face was painted in shades of brown and yellow and his big nose and lips were splattered in white and brown hues. A charming odor emanated from him, too out of place for his attire, but appropriate enough for an apprentice that enjoyed scented cleansing gel, which could be ordered at the Support Center and whose scent could be customized. 
He widened his jaws and roared menacingly.
'Salutations, Jack,' Haji greeted him and bowed.
His brown and yellow cheeks shrunk with disappointment, and he threw down his arms. 'What gave me away?' he asked.
'Other than already knowing the animal you chose?' Haji said. 'The distinctive fragrance of your cleansing gel.'
'I knew I shouldn't have showered,' he said, jolting his head and slapping one leg. 'Nevertheless, beware or I will ravage you with my smile,' he said, raising his arms again and pointing his claws at him.
'I wouldn't do that,' Haji said and grinned. 'You might intimidate your potential companion.'
He fell into a casual relaxed posture. 'I am only rehearsing for my presentation,' he said. Then he took a moment to examine Haji's attire. 'I have to admit. You look good. I never thought you would look exactly like the image on the touchscreen.'
'And that is how you recognized me,' Haji concluded.
Jack shook his huge mane from side to side, flaunting it as he combed it with both his paws. 'Well, flattering as it may be, you still do not look as good as I,' he said and unleashed his big smile.
Impressively enough, it seemed to you almost as huge as the mane itself.
'I was right,' you said to Haji. 'Not even the mane can compete with his smile.'
Your comment caught his attention, and he gave you a harsh stare. He still had not forgotten what had happened during mentor Gordon's indoctrination.
'And what happened to you? Did you somehow exceed the daily dosage of nutrients for the entire year in one day?'
'I wouldn't dare to compete with you,' you said and smiled.
'Good for you, because no one can compete with me!' he stated, striking Haji with another smile.
You still felt guilty for what had happened to him, so you thought it was best to be nice and let him have his proud moment.
'You seem to have prepared well for the Gathering,' Haji stated after studying his behavior. 'Have you chosen your companion already?'
Jack's smile was shattered into a toothy grimace. He let out a frustrated sigh and answered, 'I have. But I still haven't asked her. I hope I do until the end of the evening. Imagine ending up with Leonard,' he glanced sideways and pointed with one thumb to a bulky Elephas Maximus leaning alone on a wall. 'How fun would that be?'
'Does it even matter?' you said serenely. 'Companions are merely intended to share the same residence and look after the descendants appointed to them.'
Jack lifted his chin high as and spoke proudly, 'It matters to me. I shall have a female companion, and together we shall present Darm with the most attractive descendant ever: Jack Thompson Junior.'
You chuckled amusedly.
Haji gave him a sly smile and stated, 'Your expectations might deceive you. You're basing yourself on the assumption that a girl would want to be your companion.'
With his head, Jack nudged towards a round group of feral pyreas. Some were ogling at him discretely and sharing inaudible comments and giggles. 'I am making no assumptions,' he answered, flashing an overconfident smile. He then pointed to the great round table, 'Now, come taste the appetizers my caretaker designed.'
At that moment, a Pan troglodyte and a Macropus giganteus entered the hall coming from the coatroom, and as you examined their attires you knew them to be Samuel and Markus, two fellow apprentices from your class. Sophie and Cathy were following behind. Cathy stopped to talk to some finalists while Sophie winked at Haji and called him with one index finger.
'If you excuse me, I will go talk to my future companion,' Haji bowed and went to meet with her near the permaglass wall.
'Wait, what? Don't go!' Jack said, signaling him back, but Haji was already on his way. 
'Well, that leaves you,' he said to you in a displeased manner.
'Lead the way,' you answered, smiling through your black and white fur.

As you reached the large table, you noticed the hundreds of apprentices around it, chewing with delight. You stopped before it to look at a seemingly endless assortment of the most unusual geometrical appetizers, each piling up on different trays. There were wobbling gelatinous solids, big and small, each with different shapes and colors, ranging from yellow hexagonal pyramids to orange pentagonal prisms, to brownish irregular heptahedrons and multicolored octahedrons the size of a clenched fist. But the most massive spectacle was standing at the center of the table: an exact replica of Cathy made of hardened gelatin, from small toes to curly red hair. One of her hands was lifted in a greeting gesture while the other seemed to have been chopped off.
'Cathy ate it!' Jack promptly explained when he saw you looking at the mutilated arm.
'Apart from that, it looks really impressive,' you answered kindly. 'It looks like an edible version of her.'
'I made it myself. I had a hard time not to eat it,' he whispered to himself, however too loud.
When your looked at his melancholic gaze, you sensed in him a mixture of conflicting feelings as assorted as the appetizers themselves. Grief blended with joy, passion merged with uncertainty, until an overwhelming dread poured from his lips, 'Do not say a word to Cathy!'
You smiled. 'You have my word,' you said and pressed your lips.
'About what happened today at the indoctrination,' he said embarrassedly. 'I accept your apology. But we're not even. Do not think that I will forget it was you that---!'
Just as he spoke, an extremely elegant female apprentice coated with the most unusual animal approached the table and stopped next to you. Jack's attention was immediately drawn to her curvy shape and stopped mid-sentence, his dumbstruck mouth open, when she leaned over the table to examine the appetizers. Her body was entirely coated in iridescent scales, which refracted the dim light coming from the chandeliers hanging above, and when she stretched her arm to pick up a cup from the table, the scales shifted from red to green to blue in a dazzling spectacle of colors. She realized Jack was staring at her, and when she turned her eyes to him, Jack immediately pointed to a tray and spoke to you in a hasty, yet unusually eloquent manner:
'And here you have my caretaker's famous nutrient hips---I mean strips!---made with a vitamin complex and glucose, and infused with a unique flavoring, which only he knows the chemical composition of!'
You picked up a strip and tried it, happy that he had already forgotten about the incident. At first you chewed it with care, but when you felt the sweet and sour flavoring, you chewed it with pleasure. 
'Tasty!' you remarked with delight.
Jack was not even listening. He was still stealing sidelong glances at the girl as she leaned over. He was trying not to seem obvious while desperately attempting to recognize her, but under all the scales it was impossible for him to figure out who she was.
You looked at him as you chewed.
'Would we be even if I told you who she is?' you asked.
'You know who she is?!' he whispered with eagerness close to your ear.
You nodded at him with indifference, 'It's Marlene.'
Jack's eyes widened in disbelieve. 'Marlene?! Pale Marlene?' he whispered, raising one eyebrow and staring at her. 'She looks so...colorful. Are you sure?'
You chuckled. 'She does. I suppose that's why she chose that attire.'
Marlene was becoming clearly uncomfortable with Jack's barefaced stare. For a moment, it seemed that her face was becoming pale, just before she turned and left, her scales glistening as she walked over the grassy floor.
Staring at her as she left, Jack said, 'Well pink suits her very well, as does red. And blue. And look at that purple waist,' unable to resist anymore, he added. 'I think I will go talk to her.'
You could not hold your laughter, imagining the result of his attempt to impress her. 'You do that. Just don't ravage her with your smile.'
'Of course not!' he answered with such a wicked and wide grin that even with the scarce light his teeth shone as bright as Mithras. 
He prowled over to her, preening his huge brown mane.
'Someday that smile will get him in trouble,' you heard Cathy's voice behind you.
'Definitely,' you answered.
Then both of you turned to see Jack, flashing a smile towards Marlene, while she smiled back shyly.
'But this is the occasion it suits him best,' you added.

The Gathering lingered on into the evening to the discrete sound of chattering and giggling. Darmians did not know how to enjoy themselves, and to them the idea of fun was as close to their mind as Mithras was to Artica. There were no raised voices or boisterous behaviors, for everyone followed the Directives for proper conduct, maintaining their poise and constraining their discussions to the latest indoctrinations and one or another update on the cure that Mother had recently made available to inquiry, always under the patient scrutiny of the twenty Acolytes standing like statues around the permaglass wall and looking inwards.
Once all the finalists had sated their thirst and hunger, Cathy, the appointed hostess of the Gathering, gave continuity to the main event of the evening, the individual presentations, which had begun soon after Lunch Hour and were paused during Dinner Time. To that purpose, the one thousand finalists sat on small puffs, filling the wide hall with a large audience that turned to the vast darkness on the other side of the permaglass wall. Between them and the transparent wall, the floor itself rose to the height of a stage large enough to bear the length of the largest animal coating, which was not yours by chance, but Leonard's bulky Elephas maximus. You sat in the row before the stage, between Cathy and Haji, which sat next to Jack and Sophie correspondingly. It was with great joy that you watched each apprentice present their animals, and as the evening progressed, so too would you and your friends present theirs.
Cathy climbed to the stage, turned to face the countless staring eyes and recited with her happy, sweet voice, 'Despite belonging to the domain of terrestrial animals, the Lepus arcticus inhabited cold snowy regions much like the ones we have today in the boreal areas of Artica. They were herbivorous and likely fed on sparse vegetation growing in these regions. They used facial pockets to store food that they gathered while they hopped back to their burrows under the snow. The most probable cause of extinction was the lowering of their habitat's temperatures to levels far below sustainable conditions to the vegetation on which they fed. They were small and cute and very friendly, and that is why I chose them,' she said and bowed.
She stepped down the stage, receiving the second loudest ovation of the evening, in part due to being the hostess, but also for the pleasing way her short white fur contrasted with her red curly hair and glossy red lips.
'Red looks good on you,' Jack commented discretely after she sat next to him.
Cathy glanced at Marlene, who was two rows behind them, chatting with Heidi in her Petauristini and Julia - a mutual friend from another class - in a Sciurus carolinensis. 
'It looks good on Marlene too,' she retorted, giving him a cold smile.
Jack was hesitant at first, but then added with confidence, 'Good as she may look, it is the attire that makes her beautiful, while you are beautiful for yourself.'
Cathy was surprised by his courteous compliment. It was so unlike him to compliment her in such a way, that, at first, she did not know what to say and merely stared at him in surprise. Jack opened his mouth as if to continue, but she interrupted him, 'You have my gratitude, Jacky,' she said in a caring voice, 'I earnestly hope you find the right companion today.'
When Cathy looked away, Jack bit his lower lip and turned his frustrated face to Sophie as she climbed to the podium and began her presentation:
'The animal known as Acinonyx jubatus was one of the terrestrial animals that are believed to have inhabited the region of what is today known as the Barren Tundra. It is believed that this tundra was once rich with a large variety of vegetation and great animal herds, giving rise to extensive prairies which were a common sight during the Age of the Antiga Pyre. Examination of sub-fossils suggests that the Acinonyx jubatus hunted other animals for food and relied on sheer speed and not physical strength to overcome their prey. Researchers are yet to find any other animal with such graceful and sleek bone structure, which lead them to believe that they were the fastest animals to have ever coexisted with the antigans. The prime factor to their extinction is attributed to the Open Hunting during the Age of Obscurity, a time when our ancestors carelessly hunted every animal for food and pelts. I chose it because it was a graceful and proud animal,' she let out a saddened smile and bowed before stepping down from the podium.
Haji remembered the moment when Sophie said, ''It will be a surprise''. In truth, it had been such a pleasant surprise to see that they had had a similar taste in choosing their animal, that he reasoned they would have a productive existence together. After congratulating her and whispering into her ear that her presentation was outstanding, he rose to the podium and began in a clear assured voice, his eyes fixed on her smiling stare:
'The Lynx pardinus bore a close resemblance to the previously presented animal, the only significant difference being that they were smaller in scale. Their remains were found on an isolated peninsula Southeast of the East Continent which was known as Iberia. Detailed analysis to sub-fossils stored in the Historic Records, reveal specific traits such as heightened night vision and improved hearing, which led Specialists to believe they were mostly a nocturnal species that fed on other animals. It is not known for certain the primary reason for their extinction but studies of remains of ingested animals led us to believe that an epidemic spread through their habitat, and as a result the Lynx Pardinus inevitably succumbed, leaving behind only traces of their existence. I too chose them because they were graceful and proud,' he said and bowed and climbed down from the stage.
When Haji sat next to Sophie, she spoke to him in a mellifluous voice, 'You were even more outstanding, my favorite darmian.'
The moment for the most highly acclaimed animal of the evening to climb on the podium soon followed. Jack rose above the furry audience and landed on the podium with one swift jump. His long, tufted tail whooshed through the air as he spun round to face the crowd, and his golden mane came swooping down with a courteous low bow. Right from the start his entrance had upstaged all other presentations, and he received an eager applause from the audience. Marlene, Heidi and her other rodent friend chirred flirtatiously. Jack winked at them, and raised his arms, casting his fingers as retractable claws towards them and roared. The cheering rose even louder, and the applause resounded though the hall. Jack waved off the applause and when the noise slowly subsided to an absolute silence, he began his presentation with an overly expressive quirkiness which only he was capable of:
'The Panthera Leo was the fiercest animal to have ever existed upon the lands of the Antiga Pyre and without doubt resided on the top of the animal food chain. In fact, he was so menacing, so menacing, that his deafening roar would compel any other animal to bow before him in terrified reverence,' he combed his mane with a quick gesture, raising his head to the ceiling in a display of supremacy; two female animals from the second row giggled to each other which inflated his ego to an even higher level. 'For countless years he ruled as the king of animals, an unmatched predator save for inferior animals who took advantage of his distraction to pilfer his half-eaten preys. Yet despite being terrifying, he was also honorable and loyal. In fact, he was so loyal, so loyal, that his role in the pack was to ensure the protection of the females and his descendants by overseeing his vast territory. He would mark it with pheromones to prevent any rival from claiming his companions, and trust me when I say, that territorial disputes between these animals, these magnificent and terrifying animals, were the most spectacular displays of ferocity ever seen in Artica!' he then continued, changing his registry to a more flirtatious tone. 'And they were a gallant animal as well, so gallant, that the role of the females was to ensure they were sated with food and pleasure, and when---'
'How did they choose their companions?' Julia, who was sitting next to Marlene asked loudly.
Jack grinned at her and answered impatiently, 'I was just getting to that,' he combed his mane and continued. 'As I was saying, he was so gallant, so gallant, that when he courted a female, they would have no other desire but to surrender to his biddings and forever become his loyal companion. In fact, it was because he was so gallant, so gallant, that the Panthera leo succeeded in conquering many females, which he then made sure to protect fervently.'
Interrupting his performance abruptly, he spoke out of character and was back to being the casual Jack. 
'In fact, if you think about it, it is makes complete sense, and I believe this behavior should be cultivated in Darm. I mean, we should be allowed to have as many companions as we desire,' he said, and when he realized all the female apprentices were staring at him with incredulity, he quickly tried to explain. 'I mean there are so many of you! Why spend our entire existence with just one when we could have so many?' he asked impulsively, and then started feeling embarrassed, terribly embarrassed, and hastily drew an innocent smile which even between his brown and white makeup had all the appearance of being characteristically Jackyish.
The statement had divided reactions among the audience: the male animals laughed while the females frowned. Marlene, Heidi and Julia giggled together; Cathy and Sophie shook their heads in disbelief, while you and Haji laughed behind your hands. Despite the indignation, many found it to be a reasonable dilemma, and that same thought had crossed you and everyone else's mind, even if it had never been so openly admitted, or suggested.
'He is right!' spoke a young male voice amongst the crowd. 'We should be able to have as many companions as we want!'
'The only thing you will have is an empty residence!' added one annoyed female voice.
Many girls nodded and agreed, and a sudden debate broke out as male and female finalists turned on each other to defend their points of view.
Feeling guilty for having started the discussion, Jack raised his voice and spoke solemnly, drawing back the attention of everyone:
'They were fierce animals, capable of instilling the most profound admiration in any of us, but like all other animals they were lost forever during the Age of Obscurity. There is evidence that suggest that some managed to survive for some centuries after the collapse of antigan civilization, but with the Open Hunt they were hunted to extinction. They are gone, now, forever.'
Nothing could have silenced that hall any better than those words. The crowd had stopped arguing to stare at him in silence. He stood quietly atop the podium and did not look so proud now. Sorrow was filling his eyes and his mane had lost all splendor. Discussions about ideal companions now seemed petty to them, and any outcome they could possibly face during their existence was belittled in comparison to what had happened to all the animals that existed before their time. You felt saddened to learn of their undeserved fate. There had been an unimaginable variety of life on Artica, innumerable and magnificent animals that had prospered for ages far before the rise of the Pyre, sharing in balance the same land and sea and air. They had endured all the hardships forced upon them and still managed to thrive and bring endless beauty to the world. But, in the end, they were powerless to outlive the destruction brought down upon them by a single animal, a single creature which in its struggle for survival had carelessly neglected all life. The finalists looked at each other with newfound respect for the animals that each represented, and as they stared into each other's furry faces, a single realization came to their minds. What an irreversible loss the world has suffered with their passing.
...they are honored in death when they should have been cared for in life...
The silence was slowly lifted into an intense crescendo of applauses and effusive cheering that ended in a choir screaming, ''Jacky! Jacky! Jacky!''. Jack raised his claws proudly and unleashed his wide smile, bowing countless times before stepping down from the stage. As he sat down on his puff, you spoke to him, 'Congratulations Jacky. I am sure that that was the best presentation Darm has ever seen. How did you know so much about the Panthera leo?'
Jack leaned over Cathy's legs and answered, 'I studied. You shouldn't underestimate my desire to impress,' he said and grinned.
Jack's presentation had thrown the finalists into a rowdy state, and their loud cheering was as big of an affront to the Order imposed in Darm as they could possibly conceive. And as if that Order remained ever vigilant, the Acolytes surrounded the multitude of colorful and furry apprentices and commanded them quite severely to remain calm and silent, placing them under penalty of bringing the Gathering to an early ending if they failed to comply. When the finalists calmed down and returned to a dull soberness, the Acolytes returned to their places and stood with their backs against the walls, facing the crowd, ever watching and listening.
'Alan, it is your turn,' Cathy whispered.
You sighed in dismay.
'Do I really have to? I'm not so good at speaking to an audience.'
'Come on, troublemaker,' Haji whispered from your right side. 'It is what you do best.'
You got up reluctantly and stepped onto the podium, one bulky black leg after the other. At first you were a little intimidated, especially by the blank unflinching stare the Acolytes gave you. Then, as you looked at the nearly one thousand finalists staring back at you, a queasy sensation threw you off balance. Your puffy head wobbled, your limbs felt heavy, and you had trouble just to keep your balance on the metallic podium. To make matters worse, you realized that watching you at that very moment was the apprentice that would be your companion for the rest of your existence. You knew you had to do your best to impress her and even if you did not feel well standing there, you fervently renounced the thought of climbing down without first presenting your animal.
...belief empowers...
You gathered your courage, cast aside all negative thoughts, and focused solely on what you had learned from the Historic Records:
'The Ailuropoda melanoleuca,' you began in an insecure yet audible voice, 'was the term designated to a peculiar kind of animal that was found in a specific region of the Central Continent. Despite possessing a digestive system adapted to a carnivorous diet, no remains were found inside their digestive tract other than a specific vegetable, which led Specialists to believe they were uniquely adapted to a region where they inhabited for millions of years,' you finished the paragraph with a deep relaxing breath. 'Study of their neo-cortex suggests that they were harmless and solitary, however somewhat territorial, and it is believed that due to these traits, they were respected and admired by our ancestors. Evidence from recovered sub-fossils is not conclusive as to the cause of their extinction. Sedimentary analysis reveals that they survived the Open Hunt. However, it is likely that their numbers dwindled due to starvation, as their source for food disappeared during the lowering of the global temperature,' you finished and bowed hastily, your puffy paws hanging at your sides.
'Why did you pick it?' Cathy asked abruptly, trying to rouse your somber speech.
You wobbled on the stage and glanced outside the window-wall, trying to find the answer written on the dispersed flakes of falling snow. An almost irresistible desire to flee made you wonder how resilient the permaglass window was and if it would break if you threw yourself at it, and you went as far as to speculate whether it would shatter or leave behind the silhouette of your fleeing body if you did. You chuckled to yourself, amused by that thought, skimmed your chest with both paws and answered plainly, 'I chose it because it was a peaceful and friendly animal, but at the same time great and strong.'
'Well, it suits you very well,' Cathy added and smiled.
A group of female apprentices giggled behind her. Cathy looked back and giggled with them, and as you climbed down from the stage you heard some finalists amongst the crowd murmuring ''Cathy and Alan.''
You sat once more next to Cathy, who smiled at you with a soft yet intense gentleness.
'You did well, troublemaker,' Haji said, sitting at your right.
The rest of the individual presentations proceeded to the solemn formality of each finalist's speech. From time to time, one or another apprentice would stand up from the audience to grab some geometric appetizers from the trays, which were becoming disturbingly empty as the last apprentices presented their animals. The final twenty were from class #50 and amongst them, there was one Troglodites gorilla coated in black fur, with black hairless face and hands, followed by an Equus zebra, whose black and white stripes befuddled many spectators, one female Panthera onca with a dazzling black pelt and deep dark eyes, and lastly, a Canis lupus with a grey fur, keen eyes, sharp ears and even sharper voice.
When everyone had presented their animals, Cathy stepped onto the stage: 
'Now that we have concluded our individual presentations, we will move to the most important part of the evening: selecting a companion. I do not think I need to explain to any of you what to do, - many apprentices smiled eagerly - so you may stand up and find yourselves someone to share your residence with!'
At the sound of those words, the one thousand apprentices stood up hastily and started to form groups and groups of mixed genders. The stage was lowered back to floor level and the portion of the hall adjacent to the permaglass wall slid outwards, forming a gigantic circle shaped balcony amidst the middle floors of the tall, round skyscraper. Many groups decided to stay behind the plasma field that was raised to insulate the balcony from the rest of the hall, while others decided to step outside and chat, under the cover of a roof that had extended outwards. 
As the hours passed, the evening turned into a cold quiet night. Those who the Gathering had served its purpose started to leave, and pair by pair, Cathy's suite became less and less crowded. The groups that remained slowly became scattered about the hall, standing around tables and having conversations on the balcony, while dismay was starting to show on the faces of those alone, leaning on walls or lolling restlessly on puffs. Their dismay was justifiable, for if they could not find a suitable companion, Mother would randomly select one from the remaining finalists in that same hall.
Although you were aware of that, you made no attempt to find a companion throughout the rest of the evening. You thought about talking to Cathy. You had been good friends with her for many years, and you knew that she was the most appropriate companion for you, but seeing that it was such an important decision, you were still unsure whether to propose to her or not. So, instead of looking for her, you remained on the balcony with Haji, leaning on the long metallic railing and gazing down at the endless darkness of the Sea of Tranquility. Straight down, you could see the Coastal Walkway, its pavement lit in little white circles of light that illuminated the scattered benches and ventilation boxes. 
Haji would pause between the conversation to exhale blasts of warm breath into the freezing air and watch it crystallize into snowflakes that would then scatter into the air. It was a habit he had acquired from you. Every time he did, he found it intriguing that the crystallization process would occur so fast and merely from the water vapor exhaled from his lungs. He had precise knowledge of the process required for snowflakes to form, and in no way were the conditions required ever met. To that day he could not find a reasonable explanation for it, but he found that envisioning a likely explanation, that he then could put to test, was as an entertaining exercise for his brain as was watching them form and scatter.
'It has a sense of irony to it,' he spoke, concluding an unspoken line of thought.
'What does?' you asked absentmindedly, watching the eidetic memory of Cathy's presentation, which you had stored in your Unit and now conveyed into your mind.
With eyes cast upon the scattering snow, Haji explained in a fascinated voice, 'Water is the fundamental molecule of existence. We are mostly composed of it, and without it, Artica would have been unsuitable for any known organism to inhabit it, including us. Still, if we were to drink copious amounts of it in a short time interval, it would poison us and we would cease to exist.'
The image of Cathy's glossy red smile disintegrated from your field of view.
'It is ironic,' he repeated, 'we cannot exist without it, but if we have too much of it, it becomes a poisonous substance.'
'Everything has a limit,' you concluded.
'Precisely,' Haji agreed. 'It seems we have been designed to operate under specific conditions, and if any of these conditions are not met, either by us failing to meet them or due to some circumstance beyond our control, our continuity is no longer possible.'
You sighed as you watched an invulnerable group of sentinels far below on the Coastal Walkway, marching against the freezing wind. 'Our existence is frail,' you murmured.
Haji's eyes brightened as he stared at you, for your short remark was the sum of all his contemplation, 'Precisely! And that leads me to speculate that our existence depends on a chain of fortuitous events that occurred throughout billions of years. It is not just water that is poisonous, the oxygen we breathe can poison us as well. Ultimately, anything can be poisonous. The temperature of our surrounding, the concentration of gases in the atmosphere, the nutrients we consume, the radiation coming from Mithras, these and many more factors are needed to assure our existence and these and many other factors can just as easily terminate it,' he said, and as looked up to the darkened sky, he tried to envision the stars beyond the clouds, beyond the silvery lunoids of Oderon's Rings, beyond the endlessness of space; he lost himself wondering whether those conditions had been met on other planets.
You added humorously, 'Did you know that a gastian ceased to exist because he could not stop laughing? In a way, that proves your point. Even too much laughter can, in some way, be poisonous,' you said. Then, you added with sarcasm, 'I assume that's why games are forbidden in Darm.'
Haji gave you a stern look. 'That is obviously not the reason. Games, like any other form of entertainment, are not allowed in Darm because they are disruptive to the state of mind necessary to uphold darmian productivity. Any rewarding activity releases endorphins into our nervous system. These grant us with a sense of accomplishment. However, the rewards produced from entertaining activities lead to an inadequate sense of accomplishment, which lowers motivation and leads to idleness. Idleness lowers productivity. Low productivity leads to disorder; hence, entertainment leads to disorder. And that is directly against our Prime Directive.'
'You sound just like a Mentalist,' you said with discomfort.
Haji could not help but laugh. 'I appreciate your comparison. Mentalists are the most intelligent pyreans of our time. They are supposedly far more intelligent than our ancestors, which were intelligent, despite what happened to them.'
You looked away and muttered, 'Smart as they may be, I still don't agree with their rules. We should be allowed to have some fun now and then.'
'Fun is against the Prime Directive,' Haji answered and quieted himself, contemplating.
You looked down at your puffy black paw, then at Haji's long whiskers, and said with disquiet, 'If our ancestors were as intelligent as evidence suggests, why did they allow these animals to become extinct? I am sure they could have found a way to survive without having to hunt them for food.'
'Perhaps they took their existence for granted and never cared to think that they were condemning them to extinction. Or, perhaps, the Torment was too much for them to withstand, and in the long-lasting years of the Age of Obscurity, they descended into savagery and ignorance, as mentor Levine stated.'
Your eyes became as gloomy as the black dots of fur around them. 'It is regrettable. They were truly special,' you said in a melancholic voice.
'They were indeed,' Haji answered.
Sophie slid to Haji's side like a swift and silent feline and threw herself into his furry arms as he opened them out of reflex to embrace her. Cathy followed behind, carrying a cup in her hands.
'You two have been here all evening,' said Sophie, frowning at Haji.
'We are enjoying the view,' Haji explained, 'It is not every day that we are allowed inside a suite.'
'Well, you are supposed to be choosing your companion,' she said, giving him a sly smile.
He looked into her smiling eyes and answered, 'I am looking at my companion.'
The black stripes falling from Sophie's hazel eyes bent around her cheeks as she pouted her lips with delight. 'In that case, your companion requests that you come with her,' she said.
Haji smiled, 'I will do what my companion requests.'
She grabbed his left paw and pulled him away into the hall. Before leaving, she turned to you and asked, 'Alan, will you keep Cathy company?'
Cathy walked up to you, grabbing the cup with both hands. She had a nervous smile on her face and your heart skipped a beat when she stopped at your side.
You nodded to Sophie.
'Sure.'
She and Haji left, crossing the plasma field and vanishing into the green shades of the murky hall, leaving you alone with Cathy.
You leaned your back on the rail in a relaxed manner and stared into the hall.
Cathy leaned next to you, and after an uncomfortable silence, she nudged you with her shoulder. 'So, how are you enjoying the Gathering?' she asked in a kindly voice.
'Very much,' you answered instinctively. 'It's my first time inside a suite. I assume it wasn't easy to convince the Council. Or your caretakers. I guess I have to thank you for the opportunity.'
'Don't be silly. You know you don't have to thank me,' she said, smiling at you.
You smiled back. 
Another uncomfortable silence started to settle, and you steered your mind away, turning your attention to the sound of voices coming from the hall. You looked inside to see how the hunt for companionship was progressing. Amongst the three hundred apprentices that still lingered inside, there was Jack in his Panthera leo in an amused conversation with Marlene in her dazzling attire, and Julia and Heidi in their squirrely attires, who were in turn with their backs turned to Leonard in his Elephas maximus, who was in his own turn pushing his trunk aside with one gray paw and giving her a long face while holding a cup.
'Once we become citizens, we will never see most our colleagues again,' said Cathy. 'I still can't get that into my mind.'
'We can always schedule meetings at any retreat,' you said.
'We can. And we will! But wouldn't it be great if we were allowed to visit each other whenever we wanted? Or decide who we want to be neighbors with?'
'It would.'
'I'm just afraid that we will never see each other again,' she said and sighed. 'I want you to know that, if that happens, I will miss you.'
You looked at her and smiled. 'I will miss you too,' you confessed.
She glanced at you tentatively, her bright brown eyes fidgeting nervously, and spoke, 'You know, we don't have to...'
'Don't have to what?' you asked innocently, all the while sensing that you were nearing some pivotal moment.
'Miss each other...' she said and drew close to you, her fingertips grabbing yours.
When you felt her soft touch your back stretched with one swift jerk, becoming as stiff as a beam of impermium.
'We could always become companions,' she said, drawing herself close to you.
The moment had come. There was no avoiding it anymore. Even if you had dreaded it, you felt relieved to know that your friendship with Cathy had turned out the way you knew it would. The way you had hoped it would. So, you surrendered yourself to the inevitable and asked the question you had been avoiding. 'Do you...want...to be my companion?'
She locked her delighted bright brown eyes onto yours and spoke with the most seductive and enthralling voice you had ever heard, 'Yes.'
If it were out of cold or something else you could not tell, but you felt a tingling sensation run down your spine when she wrapped her arms around you. Still, instead of letting yourself yield to that intimate embrace, you started to worry that someone would see you.
'It's all right,' she whispered close to your lips, seeing your eyes peering from corner to corner. 'The Acolytes aren't paying attention to the balcony. We're all alone.'
Being so close to her was deeply unnerving. Her glossy red lips started drawing nearer and nearer and you felt her warm sweet breath upon your unshut lips. She closed her eyes and pressed her lips against yours, her tender body sinking onto yours, her paws grabbing your back. 
It was finally happening.
But you could not give in to the moment.
There was something strange about it.
For what seemed an eternity, your eyes remained open and you remained stone cold, neither accepting nor refusing her passionate kiss, as her wet lips eagerly felt yours. To that day, Cathy had been the only girl with whom you had shared some level of intimacy, and you had imagined that kissing her would be an epiphany of joy. But now that you did, now that the kiss was happening, you felt nothing other than skin pressed against wet skin and the insipid taste of her saliva. There was nothing stirring inside you. There was no epiphany.
She realized something was wrong, and when she opened her eyes and saw your inexpressive stare, she stopped.
She pulled her lips away from yours and slowly stepped back. 'Well, that was awkward,' she said, skimming one of her long white ears embarrassedly.
 You were dazed beyond words. Still, you tried to rattle an excuse out of your mouth, 'I...I don't know what happened.'
Cathy hid her face, clasping her hands in front of her waist and looking down at them.
'I've always liked you, Alan,' she confessed with some effort.
'I've always liked you too, Cathy.'
She stared at you and asked, her voice hinting anguish, 'Then, what is wrong?'
'I don't know,' you said and hesitated, and then spewed out what you felt was right. 'I am not sure if we should be companions.'
The glimmer in her eyes extinguished, her smile sunk into sadness, and she hid her face under her long drooping ears.
Seeing her so disheartened made you feel painfully guilty. You sensed that somehow you should have enjoyed her kiss and ignored the part of you that said that something did not feel right. And now that everything felt terribly wrong, you stared to consider that the epiphany you had hoped for had been merely an illusion, a product of fantasy, a trick of the mind.
'Cathy, I'm not as...energetic...as Jack,' you said, carefully choosing an appropriate word. 'I don't try to impress every girl just for the sake of having the companion I want. In truth, I am exactly the opposite. I like you, but---'
'It's all right, Alan,' she answered in a tremulous voice, her long furry ears hanging down in disappointment.
Feeling the pain your words were causing her, your guilt turned into anguish, and you said in desperation, 'Cathy you are a great girl---'
'It is fine,' she interrupted you. Then she looked at you soberly. 'But you should not think that way of Jack. He might be immature at times, but he is better than he appears to be, better than many think him to be. If anything, you should be more like him and take a chance with those you want to be with,' she said, and turned, and left to the hall.
You stayed on the edge of the balcony, feeling alone and dejected, unable to understand why you had just turned down the only girl you liked.

***


Hiding under a shadow of the dimly lit green hall, Sophie's and Haji's tender gazes were fixed in mutual admiration.
'I don't know how much longer I can resist kissing you,' Sophie said passionately.
'Well, you must restrain yourself until we are companions,' said Haji. 'We should not breach the Directives for proper conduct.'
The realization of becoming Haji's companion was too overwhelming for Sophie. Out of impulse, she closed her eyes and gently kissed his lips. When she slowly opened them, her lips still lingered near Haji's dumbfounded lips, and she felt that she was having a pleasant dream. Immersed in trance, she allowed them to stay there a while longer.
'I don't care. I have been wanting to feel your lips for too long,' she whispered softly, her eyes partly closed, partly staring at Haji's, who was looking around to see if anyone, especially any Acolyte noticed. Fortunately, they were more concentrated in the larger group of finalists that was gathered around the food.
At that same time, Cathy stopped in an empty space inside the hall, looking lost and saddened, and her mournful look caught Haji's attention.
'Cathy is back inside,' he said. 'She looks distressed.'
Sophie saw her too.
'It doesn't look that it went well. Can you check on Alan?' she asked him gently.
Haji nodded and left.
Sophie walked up to Cathy, who gave her a saddened smile.
'How did it go?' she asked.
Cathy looked down and spoke in a sad voice, 'It didn't work out the way I expected.'
Sophie did not know what to say. She, like any other apprentice, had little experience in relationships, especially those that ended in disappointment. Therefore, she said what she considered to be a reasonable way of accepting the outcome, 'Well, now you know and got rid of that doubt. Don't think about it anymore. He was just one of many,' she smiled at her cheerfully and pointed to the groups of apprentices still in the hall.
Cathy's grief lessened when she caught her smile. 'And he will never know what he missed,' she said and forced herself to smile. 'The Gathering is nearing its end, but I can still find a suitable companion.'
'You will. I will make sure of it!' Sophie added.
Sophie grabbed her hand and led her to the merriest group of apprentices. Jack was there, flaunting his mane as he chatted with Heidi, Marlene and Julia. He could not make up his mind about who would be the best companion for him: he did not know if he would be fond of Marlene's pale skin, after she was no longer wearing her colorful attire, or if he could tolerate Heidi's constant blabbering about everything she had learned in the indoctrinations; or stand the disconcerting gaze of reverence that Julia had been throwing at him ever since he flashed her his smile. He did not care much about the Standing of his companion, or he would have no doubt about choosing Heidi, who was top of her class, and was otherwise interested in which of them had the most carnal appeal and who seemed to be more devoted to him. By the look of it, the first seemed to be Marlene, the latter seemed to be Julia. But Heidi had alluring facets as well, and at that point, if he were allowed, he would have chosen all three of them. 
When he threw back his mane, he realized Cathy was staring at him, and he immediately ignored the three girls and turned his undivided attention to her. When she gave him a sad smile, he did his best to cheer her up. She treated his silly behaviors with kindness and her heart even lightened. Somehow, losing the chance to be with you had made her see Jack as the good friend he was.
...that which disappointed her the most was not losing what could have been...but what will never come to be...

***

'It is time that I left,' you said to Haji as he stopped before you at the edge of the balcony.
'You are not going to choose a companion?' Haji asked.
You shrugged.
'I don't know which one to choose. I guess it's better let Mother decide.'
'In that case, I will go with you,' he offered without hesitation.
'You don't have to. I will be fine,' you assured in an affected manner.
Haji easily understood the ulterior motive hidden beneath your answer, 'Do you think I would let you return to your residence alone with a snowstorm approaching and two Specialists that might be afflicted by the Torment still missing?' he said.
'The Specialists are trapped inside the Hub and the snowstorm will only hit Darm later in the night,' you objected with a seemingly unbeatable logic. 'Besides, it is better that I go alone than Sophie.'
'Sophie is staying with Cathy tonight,' Haji retorted. 'She already has Mother's permission. And I do not trust you to be safe if you are to go alone, even if the Council claims that the Specialists are trapped inside the Hub.'
For a moment you thought that he was worried about your safety. You admired his selflessness, seeing as he was willing to risk his own safety to ensure yours.
'I am impressed,' you stated. 'I did not think you doubted the Council's report.'
He gave you a sly smile. 'It is not mistrust in the Mentalists that drives me to go with you. It is mistrust in your ability to stop yourself from doing something foolish, such as trying to sneak inside the Hub alone.'
You could not deny it. While you were outside alone, pondering about your future, your thoughts had turned to thinking of a way to get inside the Hub, for your mind was set on seeing the Specialists with your own eyes and finding out if the Torment was truly real.
You sighed and abandoned your farce, knowing he had bested you in yet another game of logic, 'You know me too well. All right, let's leave to our residences. But know that I am not pleased about you stopping me.'
He grinned at you.
'I never said I would stop you.'
Eleventh memory - Fugitives in Darm

''They shall be powerful and agile, beautiful and intelligent. They will rise beyond mortality and become the embodiment of all virtues that Mankind so fruitlessly sought to achieve. In one word, they shall be perfect.''

An excerpt rescued from the last diary of Gadim: the Homo Universalis;


Outside Cathy's skyscraper, not a gust of wind could be felt. The black clouds were still settling above Darm, and the avenues were so calm that neither you nor Haji could have ever foreseen the peril that would soon fall upon you, for instead of heading towards a good night's rest, you and Haji entered the bright South Boulevard and walked towards the Hub to try your way inside.
The Boulevard's white marbled pavement was as shimmering and dry as ever, for its tiles were heated and porous so that any snow or ice falling on it would melt and the water would drain. After coming between the two Air Intake Fields flanking the South entrance to the Hub, you and Haji stopped at a distance from the imposing plasma barrier. Under the lighted gap you had crossed earlier that day, you could still see the same squad of six sentinels guarding the access with untiring alertness. 
Haji sat on one of the large, heated benches that split the Boulevard in two. He was pleased to be back inside his green uniform, although he felt that his animal attire had suited him very well.
'Stay here,' you said to him through your facemask's speaker.
You approached the checkpoint alone to confirm the assumption Haji had made regarding entrance in the Hub. Stepping into the arched gap, two sentinels moved to block your passage and you heard Mother's gentle voice coming from one of their blue featureless facades:
'At present time, darmians are not allowed inside the Hub. My apologies for the inconvenience, apprentice Balthazar. Order ensures progress.'
'It is important that I enter,' you said firmly.
'At present time, darmians are not allowed inside the Hub. For matters of urgency, please contact Mentalist Vittas. Order ensures progress.' the sentinel repeated in the same manner, only to stand before you, unflinchingly, like a solid statue. 
The irony of contacting the Mentalist responsible for darmian security to sneak around in a restricted area was not lost on you. You let out a frustrated sigh and turned back to join Haji again.
He was still sitting calmly next to the warm gust of air coming from a ventilation box, already knowing what the outcome of your attempt would be.
'Mother won't let us in,' you muttered.
'I assumed as much,' he answered through his facemask's speaker.
'We could create a distraction that would force the sentinels to leave their post and then slip inside,' you suggested.
'I hardly doubt Mother would leave the entrance unguarded,' he answered unaffectedly. 'And have you considered the consequences of being caught?'
'We could activate the Signal Re-Route,' you suggested tentatively.
Haji did not even bother to reply.
...find a way in...
You grunted in dismay. 'There must be a way in! Can't you think of anything?'
'I do not believe there is one, Alan,' he said kindly. 'It is certain that all entrances are equally secured, and the plasma barrier encircling the Hub is very much impenetrable.'
'So, we are just going to give up?' you asked.
'My apologies, Alan, but there is not much I can think of. Mother is vastly more intelligent than any of us and her droids have unerring perception. Even if, somehow, we had managed to gain access to the Hub, in no way would we be able to evade so many sentinels, not to mention the drones,' he said and pointed at the specks of light glowing dimly in the dark sky above the Hub.
It was hard for you to admit, but Haji was right. Mother's use of the Darmian Security Droids as her proxy allowed her an almost omnipresent supervision of Darm. But this was what made the matter all the more intriguing to you. How could she have let the Specialists escape the Project Facility in the first place? And how could it be that she has not found them yet?
'However, there is a related matter that I did not tell you until now, mostly because I wanted something to cheer you up after your foiled attempt,' Haji said. 'If you say you found the bracelet outside the Hub and if the bracelet indeed belongs to the Specialists, that means they might be outside already.'
You stared at him, quietly considering the possibility. If that was indeed true, then you were at liberty to search for them in the other sectors, you thought. As you gazed absentmindedly into the Air Intake Field to your right, you remembered where you had found the bracelet and the most obvious of hypothesis came to you.
'I have an idea of just where they might be,' you said enthusiastically. 'Follow me.'
You started heading back down the South Boulevard, close to the edge of the left Air Intake Field.
Haji got up in a hurry. 'I did not mean that we should go looking for them,' he asked, his voice denoting concern.
 'No, no... were just heading back,' you answered furtively as you hastened your pace.
'Why do I sense that you are going to get us in trouble?' Haji said, hurrying to stand by your side.
You chuckled. At this point you had cleared the South Boulevard and were walking along the edge of the Air Intake Field, towards the East Boulevard, where you had found the bracelet.
'So, you and Sophie,' you said in between hurried breaths, while taking short glances inside the darkened field, where tall towers pulled in the freezing air above the metropolis.
'We will become Companions,' stated Haji.
'I'm happy for you. And for her,' you said hastily.
'What about you and Cathy?' he asked. 'I assume you discussed about companionship with her when you were alone in the balcony?'
You remembered the moment when you and Cathy kissed. 'Sort of...but I decided not to be her companion.'
'For what reason?' Haji asked.
'For no reason,' you answered evasively, peering inside the Field again.
'If there is no reason, your decision does not make sense.'
'Well, there is a reason,' you retorted with indifference. 'She kissed me when we were alone in the balcony. But I didn't feel anything. Anything other than her wet lips, that is.'
Despite being surprised with Cathy for breaching a Directive, he followed his line of reasoning, 'And you allowed the absence of feelings to serve as grounds for a decision?'
You shrugged and chuckled. 'I guess I did.'
'Why?' he asked, utterly confused.
You sighed. 'It just doesn't seem right to be with someone if you don't feel anything when you kiss her.'
'Alan, be reasonable,' and Haji's voice showed concern and care. 'You and Cathy have been friends since the start of apprenticeship and you have always been in good terms with each other. As best as I can reason, she seems to be the most suitable companion for you. You should not throw away the opportunity to be with her out of lack of an emotional response to a physical intimacy.'
You stopped on your feet to ponder his point of view, staring into the Air Intake Field in front of you. Anguish began to boil inside you, and you felt increasingly confused about your decision.
'You should not let feelings overcome reason, Alan. If you miss the opportunity to choose her now, Mother will choose someone for you with which you might not have any common interest.' Haji said, concluding thoughts, and were his face not hiding under his facemask and you would have seen his witty smile.
You looked at him and smiled. 'You're probably right,' you admitted with modesty.
At that moment, Haji turned his attention to the residences on his right.
'Our residences are that way,' he said, and pointed to the large blocks of houses standing quietly in the dark.
'I know,' you said with resolve.
You approached the waist-high wall, the gust of the towers gently pulling you in. You glanced from side to side and when you made sure that no sentinel was watching, you raised one leg over the wall.
Almost immediately, you heard Haji's nervous whisper from behind you, 'Alan, what are you doing?'
 'I'm stepping inside,' you said as you landed one foot on the other side.
'We are not allowed inside the Air Intake Fields. It is very dangerous. We could get caught by a draft and sucked into one of the air inlets.'
'All the more reason to see if there is a Specialist in need of assistance inside,' you retorted wittily.
Haji's voice rose to a loud whisper, 'Do not climb that wall, Alan Balthazar. Mother knows you will!'
Your feet landed on the pavement on the other side.
An eerie silence followed.
You looked back and smiled, 'Still haven't received any message.'
'Just wait and see. The sentinels will be here in no time,' he said, and his voice was now considerably aggravated for he was starting to realize you were beyond reasoning.
Still, the silence remained undisturbed. No clanging of metallic feet was heard in the distance. Only the quiet gust of air rushing above your heads.
You let out the thought that had been brewing in your mind, 'Haji, I found the bracelet near the edge of this very Field. The Specialists could be hiding here. Don't you want to see the Torment for yourself?'
Haji looked at you quietly, his concern hiding behind the facemask. He was moved by your appeal. Even so, he answered in sound judgment, 'Not if it implies being banned from Darm. Mother knows where we are! And the Torment is very dangerous. The Specialists are not themselves. We could be endangering our existences if they see us.'
'Well, I am going,' you said stubbornly. 'And if I recall correctly, you said you were accompanying me to see to my safety, did you not?'
'I did,' he said, knowing where that line of thought was headed.
You added in a mischievous manner, 'So, if I am going, you should come too, edgy.'
He stared at you silently. Then, he took a deep breath. 'This will not end well,' he said before stepping over the wall.

It was not long before you were lost in the dark, quiet maze of towers, and neither Boulevard nor plasma barrier could be seen. Howling above you, were furious gusts of frozen air being sucked into the air inlets of the tall towers, whose beacons of light at the top faintly lit your way. The wind was relentless, and even though it was not strong enough to pull you into the air inlets, it was strong enough to hinder your movements significantly. So, you trudged on with great effort, towards where, you did not know.
'We will never find anything in this storm,' you heard Haji's calm voice in your mind as a freezing wind raged through you, throwing you off balance.
You could not disagree with him. Not only were you unable to see anything further than two meters ahead, but the idea of being attacked without any warning by a specialist suffering one of the manifestations presented to you in Fundaments of Existence was starting to make you feel nervous.
'A few more minutes and we leave,' you conveyed the thought to him, more to reassure yourself.
Suddenly, a shrill cry broke through the wailing wind. Were it a scream you could not say, but its haunted echo carried an ominous feeling. 
You froze in place, peering into the darkness between the towers to your left.
'Did you hear that?' you conveyed the thought to Haji.
'It seems to have come from there,' Haji's voice answered as he pointed into the dark labyrinth of towers. His next thought came with unease, 'Alan, we should leave.'
The feeling that you were endangering not only your existence, but the existence of your best friend finally became too much to ignore. 'All right. You're right. Let's go back,' you answered, and started heading towards Haji, who was just a few meters behind you.
Just as you were about to reach Haji, something big hit you with such strength, that your facemask flew off your face and you were thrown to the metallic pavement. The connection you had established with Haji was immediately severed as an overwhelming dizziness engulfed your every thought.
Haji ran to you and kneeled. 'What happened?' he asked aloud, his voice greatly amplified by the facemask's speaker.
It felt like you had been run over by a speeding glider. Your head was spinning around so frantically that you had to shut your eyes and lay very still just to avoid losing consciousness. 'Something big hit me,' you answered through clenched teeth.
He quieted himself and focused on his surroundings, but heard nothing except the wind raging through his raised hood.
Haji looked around nervously, but saw nothing except the dark shadows of the intake towers.
Then, to his surprise, three meters away from him, a body lying on the metallic pavement crackled into sight, steaming with water vapor. It wore a slim white exoderm with a belt and a lowered white hood covered its face.
'A Specialist,' Haji cried, even though he could not see more than a white figure.
When the figure would not stand up, he approached it cautiously.
'He seems unconscious,' he shouted through the gale between you.
You risked opening your eyes a little bit to look at him, but without the facemask, the freezing gale stung your eyes. 'Help me get up,' you shouted back.
Haji walked up to you, wrapped his arm around your back and helped you stand up as fast as you could manage. You head throbbed painfully, and the haziness you felt warned you that anything short of walking would send you back to the ground. Fighting the strong wind, you picked up your facemask, and after attaching it to your cold numb face you dragged your feet towards her and knelt next to Haji.
Haji pulled back the white exoderm on the figure's slender left forearm. 'He is not wearing any Unit,' he said after examining his forearm. 'He has to be one of the missing Specialists.'
As you admired the soft angular chin beneath the lowered hood, you felt a sudden desire to pull the hood back.
It was her. 
Your eyes widened in awe when you saw how beautiful her cool pale face was. Even more surprising was her hair, white as unspoiled snow, and it shimmered as snow does when the soft rays of morning hours gleam upon its frozen surface.
...I know her face...
This was when you saw her for the first time. Time seemed to stop, and the wind and towers faded into forgetfulness, as you lost yourself admiring her beautiful face. As you laid your eyes upon her, you had the strange feeling that you had seen her before, as if she were someone dear to you, someone you knew for a long time.
'I know her face,' you said in an awe-stricken tone.
'I am notifying Mother,' Haji shouted.
...stop him...
You shook your head, regaining your awareness.
'No!' you cried. 'Wait!'
Breaking the link to his Unit, Haji stared at you and spoke apprehensively, 'Alan, she might wake up at any moment. Then what will happen?'
As the dizziness slowly faded, your thoughts became clearer. 'Does she look like she's suffering from the Torment?' you insisted, and when you looked at her again you lost yourself admiring her beauty once more.
Haji looked at her and hesitated. His reply was lost in a disconcerting surge of hypotheses as to who she was. After examining her attentively, he concluded that she was not one of the Project Specialists, for she was not wearing any uniform or insignia and no Specialists was as young as she seemed to be. Her mere appearance seemed too otherworldly for a darmian.
...help her...
'We have to help her,' you pleaded to him.
Even though Haji could not be entirely certain that she was not a Specialist, he felt that whoever she was, trying to help her would not end well for you and him.
'I don't think we should,' Haji shouted, the winds raging on relentlessly between you. 'I have a bad feeling about helping her.'
'Didn't you just tell me not to let feelings overcome reason?' you asked sternly.
Haji shook his head in disapproval.
'I'll carry her,' you promptly added. Ignoring the throbbing pain in your head, you lifted the girl to your arms. She was not very heavy, but she was taller than you.
'And where do you propose we take her?'
'Out of this Field for a start,' you shouted back, and you glanced around before heading out.
Haji sighed and followed you.

...it almost seems as if my past self heard me when I urged him to help her...
In a manner of speaking, he did. Yet, at the same time, your desire to help her came to you as a reaction to what your past self felt, for your present and past self are part of the same soul. You are one with him. His will is your will.
...then I can command myself to change the past...
There is no way for any soul to alter the Tides of Fate, be it by will or force, for it is a place that cannot be defined by time or space. The events you see here have already occurred in an infinite regression and at the same time are yet to occur in an infinite succession. As such, your future is, and will always be, a reflection of your past; and, at the same time, your past will always be a reflection of your future.
...I do not understand...
In time, you will. For now, know this. All that is to come in your existence as Alan Balthazar has already come and pass. The universe itself is but a fleeting glimmer of light, and as you linger here in the ebb and flow of life, you are seeing events as they truly are: visions of ages long gone.

And so, as you fled East through the countless towers, your weariness began to slow you down and you started to lag behind Haji. Although the girl was not heavy, you - like all darmians - were not used to carrying heavy objects, even less another person.
You leaned on a tower, your arms burning up from exhaustion. 'I cannot carry her any longer,' you shouted amidst your panting.
After gently laying the girl on the pavement, you slid your back down the tower and sat on the floor.
Haji crouched beside you and waited in silence for you to recover. 
As your strength slowly returned, your eyes were unconsciously drawn to girl once more. There was such calmness in her cool pale face that, when you lost yourself admiring her, something awoke inside you, an overwhelming fervor that rushed from within and overflowed to your thoughts.
'We have to hide her,' you said out of impulse.
'Have you lost all reasoning, Alan?!' Haji burst out desperately. 'Stepping inside an Air Intake Field is a serious breach of the Directives, but what you propose is far worse. She is most likely related to the missing Specialists, and we are endangering our existences merely by being close to her! And Mother knows we are here,' he added gravely. 'Our best course of action is to leave her here and return to our residences and await Mother's contact. We will surely have to face the consequences of what we have done.'
Haji would rarely lose his temper and you knew he was right. Still, you would not be discouraged. The sense of commitment towards the girl had become so strong that you would not think of anything other than helping her, 'If our Units have not yet received any notice from Her, chances are that She's not even aware of us being here.'
Strangely enough, as you spoke, the relentless winds were slowly abated, until an eerie quietness engulfed you.
Through the waning breeze, a faint clanging of metal came to your ears, distant at first, but every clang louder than the previous. You and Haji stared at each other, halting your breath and standing completely motionless, hoping the sound would go away.
Clink. Clank. Clink. Clank. The sound was approaching rapidly now, becoming easily discernible. You realized it was coming from the darkness above. You lifted yourself up and peered into the top of the towers. No air was being draw into them anymore. They had been deactivated.
Clank! Clank! Clank! Clank!
The last four clanks smashed the metallic floor with the shape of four evenly spaced pairs of claws. Your heart started pounding in your chest, when above the claw shaped marks, four slender droids, black as night, emerged out of thin air, encircling all three of you against the tower and denying you any chance to escape. They looked in many ways like sentinel droids, but their structure was slimmer and lighter, their limbs more agile and slenderer, and they bore no insignia of the D.S.D. on their chests. They were Stalkers, droids designed for the sole purpose of capturing darmians who had strayed too far from Darm's directives, and it was the first time you saw them.
Through their featureless visages came the automated voice of Mother in unison, 'Apprentices Alan Balthazar and Haji Donovan, you are to submit yourselves for peaceful arrest.'
Haji immediately dropped to his knees, bowing his head low and raising his arms forward so that his hands were out of his sight, following for the first time the Directive for arrest as best as he knew. Even though he was aware that there were severe consequences waiting ahead, he sighed with relief, believing that your senseless misconduct had been timely stopped, given that now you would have no other option but to obey Mother.
...what a fool...what short work he could have made of them if only he knew the power he held...
Contrary to what Haji had expected, you did not submit or surrender, neither bowing your head nor raising your arms. You did kneel, however, to gaze down at the girl's beautiful face and lift her up by placing her right arm around your shoulder and your left hand around her waist. Then, you surrendered to the desire to rebel that screamed inside your head:
'No,' you said imposingly.
Haji looked at you and spoke in shock, 'Alan?! Obey Her command. I beg you!'
Despite your defiance, Mother did not falter. Each of the four stalkers raised one of their dark slender arms at you, and from atop their forearms a small compartment with darts emerged. Her response was cold and uncaring:
'Apprentice Balthazar, you are to desist and surrender the specimen immediately. Failure to comply will lead to the use of tranquilizing darts.'
You stood defiantly, filled with the intense desire to stop them, but you did not know how. When despair was about to overcome your resolve, you felt the girl move in your arms and so you looked at her. She lifted her head and opened her eyelids, revealing two deep blue eyes. They gleamed with a light of their own, dim at first, but growing ever brighter.
With one effortless move, one droid aimed his forearm at the girl's neck and fired a single dart; his aim was true, and the dart carved itself in her bare neck. The girl grimaced, but at that moment, a burst of blue energy shook the air around you, knocking you to the ground, and sparks erupted from the joints of the four droids. Their heads and arms and legs became limp, and they came falling to the ground simultaneously, where they jerked in a spectacle of convulsions. When they stopped, the smell of burnt circuits emanated from their black inert shells.
'What happened?' said Haji, staring at the droids with incredulity.
The girl looked at you with her deep blue eyes. They were so compelling that you felt completely drawn to them. She opened her mouth as if to speak, but moaned faintly, before her head collapsed onto your chest and the weight of her body surrendered hopelessly to the strength of your arms.
Worry overcoming you, you lowered her and gently laid her on the pavement. She was eerily still.
'This can't be good,' you said to yourself.
You hastily removed the strange object from her neck; its tip was filled with a single drop of her blood. You pulled the exoderm of your forearm back and allowed the drop to fall onto your Unit; then, you issued it to scan the chemical components. The Unit conveyed to you that it had traces of a substance you knew to have sleep-inducing effects.
'She has been sedated,' you said, letting out a relived sigh and then looking at Haji, who was standing before the disabled droids fuming on the ground, his back turned to you.
'This incident is beyond reproach,' he said in complete dismay. 'It will most likely lead to our banishment. We will become Outcasts, like many before us.'
Upon hearing him, it struck you that he had just come from the Gathering, where he and Sophie had decided to become companions. He was a bright apprentice, one of the brightest of your generation, and all his expectations were close to being fulfilled. But now all seemed lost for him, and you were the sole responsible.
You shook your head in denial. 'The droids malfunctioned! We had nothing to do with that,' you cried out.
Haji would not even turn to look at you. 'It doesn't matter. The little chance we had of leaving the field without alerting Mother is gone.'
You forced yourself to gather some sense, but what had happened was too surprising. 'Haji, this girl is not one of the missing Specialists. There is more to this than what we were made aware.'
'True as that may be, there is nothing we can do to help her,' he said dejectedly.
'Don't you want to know who she is?!'
Haji turned to look at you. 'Alan, we have most likely jeopardized our citizenship. If we help her, we might even lose our existence.'
The feeling that you had to help the girl was so strong, that you promptly rejected his claim. You were determined to ensure her safety and you go as far as to ignore every Directive, confront any droid and sacrifice your existence if you had to.
'There is nothing we can do, Alan,' he said.
A reasonable solution came to your mind, 'We hide her in the Shelter. The dispersion field that envelops the chamber prevents any scans from detecting her. If we hide her there, she will be untraceable by any known sensors, even Mother's.'
Haji allowed himself to reason with you to try and make you understand the helplessness of the situation. 'Considering we manage to get there, how do you suggest we gain entry to the facility?'
'If we get there, that won't be a problem,' you replied with confidence.
Your answer could only lead him to one conclusion. 'You know the override code to the maintenance entrance?'
'I do. I saw it two weeks ago when Brent typed it in the touchscreen.'
'Mother changes those codes every week, Alan,' he stated.
'At least we have to try!'
 Haji shook his head in dismay. 
'Considering she has not changed it, how are we supposed to get there?' he asked condescendingly. 'We are to succeed in carrying the girl without alerting our presence to Mother?' he said. Following his line of thoughts, his reasoning led him to the inevitable fact, 'Alan, we have no chance of success. Our best course of action is to leave the girl and present ourselves to Mother for peaceful arrest. There might still be a chance to avoid our banishment if we request the Council's pardon and submit to cognitive rehabilitation,' he added in a warm consoling way.
...protect her...that is all that matters...
You had followed the Council's Directives without any other choice for so many years, that you could not bear the thought of submitting yourself to their will any further, especially because you had done nothing wrong. Combined with that resentment, the desire to help the girl became so strong, that you knew beyond doubt what you had to do. You clenched your fists and spoke in a solemn voice, 'I will hide her in the Shelter. You should not come. This is my decision and I should face the consequences alone.'
You tone carried such resolve, that it imprinted itself on Haji's mind like an undeniable truth. He knew he would not make you see reason. 'You are willing to forfeit your citizenship for a girl you do not know?'
You gazed once more at the girl lying helplessly on the pavement. She seemed to be resting peacefully now.
'I will not let Mother have her.'
Haji knew he could not reason with you any longer. He let out a frustrated sigh, glanced into the cold darkness that surrounded him and was drawn once more to the grave notion that he had broken several of the most important Directives that night.
'Then, I will go with you,' he said.
Overwhelmed with guilt, your voice lost all its resolve and was now a helpless plea, 'Haji, no. You should return to your residence.'
'I would never leave you alone, troublemaker,' he replied with warm compassion. 'Besides, my help will improve your odds of success.'
...I remember now...the day I tried to encourage my colleagues to skip indoctrinations...he has the same look as when he faced the Overseers that came to arrest me...
He was but a young boy, yet he stood stubbornly between you and the two tall figures of authority, denying them passage.
'But we cannot allow Mother to find out the location of the Shelter. That would risk Brent's citizenship as well,' he added. 'I suspect that if we attempt to return to our residences we will be arrested. That leaves us with only one solution. We must activate the Signal Re-Route remotely.'
Activating the Signal Re-Route remotely could risk everything that Haji had planned for his future. Mother would notice the inconsistency in your location and once you were arrested, your units would be examined. It would be easy for any technician to see that they had been tampered with, and the consequences of that were beyond cognitive rehabilitation. All that would be left for him would be the ominous void of uncertainty.
'Done,' he said and looked at you with lively eyes.
You were disappointed with yourself for having cornered him into helping you and you felt as weary as a retired citizen. You gave him a frail smile from underneath your facemask and expanded your consciousness towards your Unit, focusing on conveying the thought of activating the Signal Re-Route.
'Done,' you said soberly. Then you lifted the girl into your arms. 'Let's go.'

...he risked his life to help me...
That is what a true friend does in times of need. But his actions were not entirely selfless. He found it deeply disturbing to see those menacing droids under Mother's command, and when he saw the girl wearing no Unit and seeming entirely unaffected by the Torment, he began to consider that the account of the missing Specialists had been a clever fabrication, forged to conceal what had really happened. It was an immensely disturbing thought for someone not accustomed to lies and deceit. He felt his trust in the Council was being put on trial and that finding out who the girl was would be the defining action that would allow him to trust them once more. Therefore, he helped you not only because he was worried about your safety, but also because he needed to know the truth.

***

A droid leg was flattened beneath the weight of a metallic foot. Scattered between the deactivated Air Intake Towers were the four discomposed Stalkers. Wollen examined the surrounding area with his sensitive infrared sensors and found a faint trace of heat on the pavement. He approached it, minding his steps, and studied it. In the freezing temperatures the signature had all but disappeared and he could not make out what they meant.
He sniffed the stagnant air.
'The specimen. And an apprentice,' he reported, and his voice was vicious and distorted.
Watching him from the darkness was Mentalist Vittas. He was wearing his crimson mantle, clad with gilded stripes on its shoulders. He had a proud look on his pale face and his gaze seemed to bear an omniscient awareness of everything that surrounded him. He looked down at Wollen, whose crouching form seemed like a misshapen amalgamation of flesh and metal.
'Two apprentices, whose curiosity and foolishness led them to the specimen. They are carrying her out of the field towards the Administrator Sector. Bring them to me as well,' he commanded in an impassive tone. 'Their actions cannot go unpunished.'
Wollen's maimed face lit with a rotten grin. 'With pleasure,' he answered in a ghoulish voice.
With unnatural ease, he leapt vertically, landing on the top of an Air Intake Tower twenty meters above, and then probed the darkened sea of towers with his cold monocle, attempting to find any heat signature.
'Wollen,' called the crimson Mentalist from below. 'You are not to harm them.'
Wollen's cheerful grin sunk underneath a frustrated sneer.
'Yes, Master Vittas,' he answered before his form vanished into the night.

...hideous abomination...neither pyrean nor machine...
Not all cybernetic organisms are foul. To join life with machine may seem unnatural, but the result is still made of elements of the Tides of Fate. In this sense, there is no ingenuity of the living capable of overcoming the tides, for all sentient creatures are bound to them, therefore all that they conceive is still part of the tides. Your ancestors were aware of this phenomenon, even though they did not fully understand it. They named it the Plenitude Principle, and it is the reason why invention cannot be defined as acts of creation, but as acts of transformation. So long as the Tides of Fate continue to flow, the boundaries of transformation are endless.
However, Wollen was a particularly malignant form of life, for he had been purged of all kindness the moment his body was transformed by Mentalist Vittas. He was as old as Darm, and he was designed to become an obedient servant, one able to hunt down darmians that had been deemed unessential to the progress of the metropolis. After so many years of subjugation and punishment under his master's rule, Wollen's mind had become filled with both envy and hatred for all unblemished life, and the only appeasement he found came from inflicting upon darmians the suffering that Vittas inflicted upon him. Of the countless darmians who fell prey to him, some were fortunate enough to survive the encounter and were banished from Darm; others, particularly those unwilling to surrender, suffered a more violent end.

***

'I have to rest for a while,' you conveyed the thought to Haji.
You were breathing intensely through your facemask. Drops of sweat were rolling down its edges and dripping on the marbled pavement. Inside the relative safety of a dimly lit residential cloister, you laid the girl next to you and sat with your back against the outer wall of a residence. The night had become particularly cold and windy - a sign of the impending snowstorm - and when you removed your facemask to refresh yourself, the freezing air flooded your lungs and forced you to cough. You slapped your mouth and listened quietly, hoping that the coughing had not been heard by any sentinels marching on the streets just outside the cloister. To your relief, the only sound to be heard was of water trickling in the fountain at the center of the cloister.
You removed your glove and touched the girl's face. Her skin was cold and hard. Worrying that the freezing temperatures would be too much for her to bear, you undressed your jacket and wrapped it around her face, tying a knot loose enough to allow her to breathe.
The polymerized edges of the facemask gently adhered to the shape of your face, restoring warm air to your lungs. You leaned your back on the wall and peered down the alley towards the street you intended to go. 'There are hardly any sentinels to be seen,' you conveyed the thought to Haji. 'I would think that Mother would be more interested in finding us, yet I haven't received any communication from her.'
'There is definitely something wrong in all of this,' Haji answered back.
You gazed at the girl as she slept. 'Mother called her specimen. What do you think she meant by that? Could Specialists be experimenting on pyreans?' you spoke in a hushed voice.
'I don't know,' Haji answered with disquiet. 'But despite the disturbing implications, that could very well be the case. She is not wearing a Unit, which means that she either exposed to the Torment or she is immune to it.'
'Perhaps,' you said absentmindedly. You were thinking about the moment the droids malfunctioned. She was staring at them with a glow in her eyes, a deep blue glow.
Haji muttered, 'We must leave. Haste is essential if we are to succeed in hiding her in the Shelter.'
His words pulled you back to the quiet residential cloister. You peered once more into the street between the residences and made sure there was no sentinel patrolling it. Re-establishing the link to his Unit, you conveyed the thought to him, 'Let's go. Your turn to carry her and my turn to see if the way is clear.'
'I was expecting that,' he answered as he lifted the girl into his arms.
Haji followed you close behind as you crossed the street towards the next residential cloister, only to cross the cloister onto the next street. You repeated this process with growing efficiency, always looking around the corners of the alleys before stepping out, always attentive to the sounds coming from the streets, always hoping that neither clink nor clank would resound off the rooftops. After many cloisters had been left behind and many casual patrols of sentinels avoided, the time to enter the Manufacturing Sector drew upon you.
Standing at the end of one of the last alleys before the bright East Boulevard, you and Haji studied the two pairs of sentinels that guarded it, performing their mechanical back and forth march. They swept a segment of fifty meters, each pair patrolling a separate lane of the Boulevard, and they moved in opposite directions so that their combined line of sight granted them a seemingly flawless perception of the Boulevard. Fortunately, you were aware that sentinel visual sensors had a field of vision limited to 160 degrees, a specification that few darmians were aware of, but something that had helped you and Haji avoid them on many occasions on your journeys to the Shelter. 
Studying their perfectly synchronized march, Haji noticed that if you crossed the lanes just as both pairs turned their backs to each other you could reach the other side before they turned around at the end of their segment. To accomplish this, the timing and speed had to be flawless; but you had mastered an activity that was much alike the task. To you, it was as simple as calculating a drifter jump between the paths of two other drifters.
Waiting for the right moment, you conveyed to Haji a concern that was starting to trouble you, 'When Brent finds her in the Shelter we will be in a lot of trouble.'
'Let's worry about getting her inside the Shelter first,' Haji answered. 'Go, now!'
You left the alley, sprinting across the dry pavement, the warm gust of wind coming from the ventilation boxes muffling the sound of your footsteps as the sentinels marched away from you. When you reached the alley at the other end, you turned to see Haji lagging behind as the sentinels finished their segments, and for a moment you felt that he was going to be spotted.
Haji crossed the Boulevard just before the sentinels turned around, stopping by your side as the clinking of footsteps passed by.
He sighed with relief. 'Flawless,' he conveyed while panting from carrying the girl.
'Just like beating Zigvirat,' you returned the thought while chuckling.
Haji allowed himself to chuckle with you as he recovered his breath.
In that moment of respite, you looked back to the alley where you were before and you thought you saw the odd gleam of a metallic figure. Its shape was too bent and distorted by the warm vapor spewed out from a ventilation box to make out, but it did not seem a droid for its head did not have the same metallic gleam as his chest. You were trying to make out what it was when Haji nudged you.
'Come. We're still not out of danger.'
You nodded to him.
With haste and caution, you covered the distance to the Shelter through the alleys and streets of the tall facilities. For the first time in your existence, you had lingered in the streets well into Sleep Time, and the same course you were so used to take on peaceful bright afternoons, now carried with it an ominous darkness and a strange silence that warned you to be doubly aware. It had not been the first time you had breached a Directive, nor would it be the last, but never to this point. Mother was actively searching for you, and it was only a matter of time until She found and arrested you. Yet for all your worry, there was still not a single sentinel to be seen. The Manufacturing Sector was nothing more than a dark quiet place, whose empty streets and tall shadowy buildings resembled more the surreal constructs of nightmares than the prominent Manufacturing Facilities of Darm. Even worse, was the heavy snow that had begun to fall, a sign that the snowstorm had arrived.
You halted at a snowy alley, three alleys away from Brent's, and waited for Haji as he stopped next to you, struggling to hold the girl on his arms.
'Let's carry her together,' you conveyed. 'There doesn't seem to be any sentinel here.'
As you lifted the girl's arm over your shoulder, a slow repetitive clinking crept down the narrow walls. You immediately looked up at the facility's rooftops, but you could not see past the white flakes of snow that rushed towards your visor. The thought of black droids suddenly emerging out of the thick white snow and surrounding you in that narrow alley rooted you in place. You glanced at both ends of the alley, staring for what seemed an eternity.
'Run,' you whispered feebly.
A hideous laughter echoed down the walls. This time, when you looked up, there was something looming over the edge of one facility, something bearing a strange resemblance to a pyrean crouching in an odd fashion and staring down at you, his head bowing low, his hands gripping the edge of the roof between his feet, its bent knees pointing upwards. His face was too darkened to make out, yet its misshapen form seemed unlike anything you had ever seen.
Startled by that apparition, which you could only describe as a grotesque manifestation of the Torment, you darted down the alley, sharing the burden with Haji, as you both carried the girl on your shoulders. 
Just as you were nearing the street, you and Haji recoiled as a plume of snow lifted into the air before you when something heavy smashed the pavement. As the plume settled, you saw to your shock that the thing that was staring at you from the roof was now standing before you as clearly and vividly as needed be. His appearance was grotesque, a tall long-limbed body made of decayed flesh and silvery metal, all bound together by screws and sutures. His muscular legs were a concoction of flesh and pneumatics with sturdy metal kneecaps and metallic feet; his bare abdominals were surmounted by a wide chest clad in silvery armor; his bare left arm was overly muscular, layered in decomposed flesh, while his right arm was made of metal and pneumatics with a metallic claw as a hand. It was Wollen, and he cast a terrifying gaze at you with his dark monocle and a pale gray eye surmounted by a scarred forehead. 
'Going somewhere?' he asked in a harsh mechanical voice.
You stared at that strange spectacle of misshapen flesh and bolted metal, all the while thinking that in no way could the crude contraption in front of you be one of the missing Specialists.
'What are you?' you asked with a puzzled look on your face.
The creature let out a sinister chuckle and extended his claw-like metallic hand. 'Hand her over,' he ordered, exposing a gruesome line of rotten teeth as he grinned.
You were too perplexed to reply, but not perplexed enough to forget the task at hand. Empowered by the sense of commitment towards the girl, you placed her on Haji's arms and conveyed the thought to him, 'Take her to the Shelter. The code is ''seven-two-nine-two-four''.'
 Then you put one step forward, challenging the frightening creature.
Haji would not argue with you; the sight of that mixture of flesh and machine had baffled him beyond words. He nodded and headed back to the way he came, dragging the girl beside him.
Wollen feigned a left hook to your face. When you ducked, he leapt over you like an agile animal and thrust himself towards Haji. Sensing his approach, Haji threw himself onto the snowy pavement, the girl falling next to him; he had avoided a vicious blow to the back instants before it landed.
Unimpressed by his quick reaction, Wollen halted his momentum, turned around, and bent towards him, extending his hand as if to help him stand up. 'I will not let you run, so why not spare yourself from a beating and come with me?' he asked with a strange formality, almost like that of a citizen of Darm.
Fueled by a desperate rush of adrenaline, you recalled all the fighting that took place in the halls of the Drifter Races and dashed towards him, lunging at him, feet first, and clashing against his silvery back. It was a direct hit, and he rolled down the deep alley until the blanket of snow halted him.
'Go, now!' you said aloud.
Haji heard you plainly. He jumped to his feet, lifted the girl to his arms and ran past you. As you saw him leave, he disappeared into the snowy darkness. It was up to you to stop the creature from chasing him.
'You should not have done that,' you heard him speak somberly.
You turned to look at him, three meters away from you, only to see him rise to his feet and calmly wipe the snow from his plated shoulders. Ignoring the urge to flee, you gazed around, searching for something that would help you confront him, but there was nothing in the dark alleys of the Manufacturing Sector. You stepped backwards nervously, clenching your fists, crushing the dread that ran rampant through your body, 'Come any closer and I'll do it again,' you provoked, the voice projected from your facemask trembling with doubt.
Wollen chuckled scornfully and twisted his neck from side to side to extend its muscles, his joints snapping softly. 'I might just have to, but I doubt you will even see me,' he said just before he encroached upon your listless body with impossible speed and struck you with an overpowering blow the stomach. 
You immediately fell to your knees, coughing uncontrollably.
Staring down at your defeated posture, he said with displeasure, 'Are you ready to give up? Or do I need to beat you up a little more?'
Ignoring the nauseating pain, you jumped to your feet and aimed a succession of angered jabs to his head, but none made contact, as the creature successively dodged them with ease. Your strength slowly draining away with each consecutive miss, you aimed one desperate fist at his bare abdomen. 
Wollen did not dodge it. He did not have to. His solid abdomen took the blow without so much as budging while the impact almost broke your wrist. Looking down at your quavering body, he chuckled in his deformed timbre, and with one single swooping kick to your abdomen, he sent you tumbling down the alley.
After you came to a stop, you grabbed your aching abdomen while moaning in pain. Wollen allowed you to recover, staring at you in an unimpressed manner as you sat on your knees, moaning and struggling to breathe. It was hard for you to accept, but you had no chance of stopping the heinous creature standing in front of you. You were hopelessly outmatched and the only thing that prevented you from succumbing to the debilitating chest pain was the unmitigated desire to help the girl. As you clung to that thought, her deep blue eyes came to your mind, her soft cool face grimacing as her head collapsed against your chest. Even if you could not stop him, to the least you would ignore the pain a little longer and use your remaining strength to stall him for as long as you could.
...confidence comforts...
Calmness enveloped you as an unexpected sense of confidence overcame your thoughts. You removed your facemask, exposing your face to the freezing air and gazed peacefully at the pyrean's maimed countenance five meters away from you. He did not seem unsightly anymore, nor did he seem menacing. He was merely someone, something, a thing that had to be stopped.
...courage strengthens...
Wollen growled and charged towards you, building up a relentless momentum. His attack would most certainly injure you severely, but you did not falter. You stood your ground, focusing on the single purpose of stopping it. He aimed his knee at your chest, but you did not lose heart. You crossed your forearms before you, driven by the desire to withstand the blow, even if it would ultimately cost you your existence.
...resolve protects...
Your eyes were kindled with the red glow of resolve, as all your consciousness was engulfed by that overwhelming emotion. Your forearms were flooded by a burning torrent of blood and the exoderm upon them was torn asunder by a myriad of red crystals that erupted from the skin. Wollen's knee smashed against it furiously, but the crystal shell held firm, receiving the blow without shattering, projecting a bright flash that for a second painted the dark alley in crimson.
The blow knocked you and Wollen to the ground, and after you scrambled to your feet, you could only but stare in awe, your eyes widened upon the thick shell of red crystals softly gleaming on your forearms. You could not comprehend what you were seeing, but before you could make any sense of it, Wollen - who had already gotten up - aimed a foot at your chin; out of reflex, you blocked the attack with one forearm, and once more, the red crystals deflected the blow, projecting a bright crimson flash and casting the creature back.
Excitement flowed through you as you realized you now had something you could defend yourself with, and without any other thought you aimed your fist at the creature's awe-stricken face. He was too surprised to avoid it. To your own misfortune. 
When your fist struck the creature's face, you felt a sting of pain so intense that, before you realized what had happened, you were down in the ground, grabbing your wrist with a cry stuck in your throat. 
When you looked at your arm, eyes narrowed in pain, there were no more crystals on your skin; your frail bones had been too weak to withstand the impact and your hand was shattered. The pain was excruciating, but even before you could overcome it, Wollen grabbed the collar of your exoderm and lifted you into the air. Then, he thrust you against the wall, grabbing your left forearm and staring at its back. When he saw your Unit properly adhered to the skin, he was confused for a moment. He leaned towards you in until his face stopped a breath away from yours.
'How were you able to manifest?' he asked in a commanding tone, his breath reeking of rotten teeth.
You could not stop moaning in pain, so he threw you towards the other wall. When your back and head smashed against it, your sight was filled by an explosion of sparkling lights, and unrelenting waves of wooziness sapped all the remaining strength from you. 
You collapsed over the snowy pavement, and as you teetered on the edge of consciousness, you heard an irritated growl and a statement filled with disdain, 'Pitiful.'
...if only I could harness them...

***

'Alan!' Haji screamed, as he ran towards your fallen body.
He kneeled right in front of the Wollen, ignoring him altogether, and turned you upwards. You head drooped down but your lips still moved. He leaned one ear close to your mouth and heard you moaning faintly. There was still some consciousness left in you. He saw your facemask fallen on the snow, the falling snowflakes piling upon it, picked it up and attached it to your face. Then, looked up at the creature, which seemed to be immersed in calm contemplation, and spoke angrily, 'You mindless thing! Why would you harm him?'
Regaining his attention, Wollen looked at him and saw that the girl was no longer with him.
'Where is the girl?' he promptly asked with a clear commanding voice.
His voice was so powerful, that Haji was utterly compelled to answer. Instead of revealing her location, he forced himself to answer evasively, 'I do not know which girl you are talking about.'
Wollen approached his maimed face and asked menacingly, 'Where is the girl you found in the air intake field?'
Haji clenched his teeth and tried to resist the commanding voice. 'Beyond your reach,' he answered, grimacing from the effort.
'Where is she,' Wollen asked again, and his voice was becoming impatient. 'Tell me, now.'
It took Haji a painful amount of self-control to remain quiet. Ignoring the command and the pain triggered by his defiance, he focused on trying to find the best way to rescue both of you from that helpless situation. He soon determined that the best option would be to expand his mind to his Unit and alert Mother. However, a lingering thread of reasoning warned him that the creature would stop him with a vile attack.
It was precisely what Wollen did. Noticing his blank stare and realizing what he was trying to do, Wollen swung his fist at his face with a clean right hook that would have knocked him out cold and put a swift end to his attempt. Haji instinctively ducked and the clenched claw grazed his green hood, throwing it back. 
Wollen stared at him for a moment, surprised by his timely reaction; he had swung his fist so fast that Haji could not have seen it coming, yet he had managed to avoid it.
...to every action there is a reaction...
What your kind came to know as causality. Haji's understanding of this principle, combined with his will, allowed him to foresee the chain of events just before they occurred, and for the moment that followed, he continuously foresaw every jab, hook and uppercut Wollen threw at him, avoiding them altogether, either dodging, ducking or rolling over the snowy pavement. 
Yet even if Haji succeeded in avoiding every strike, he had not a second to reason what was happening. To him, he felt as if he was deeply immersed in a trance that granted him sight of the creature's movements just before it moved. The premonitions became so familiar, that he was beginning to gain the upper hand, and with the advantage he managed to gain, he had time to plan a cunning counterattack. 
Ducking a fierce hook, he kicked a tuft of loose snow from the pavement, blanketing the air between them; exploiting the dim visibility he jumped and threw both his feet at the creature, mimicking with perfect accuracy the movement he saw you perform moments before. A brute force travelled from his snow-screened feet to his legs and he knew he had struck the creature.
 He fell from the impact, the blanket of snow cushioning his fall; without wasting time he hastily expanded his consciousness to his Unit, utterly breaking his awareness. 
From the blanket of snow, on came a jab that hit his chest, knocking the air out of his lungs and hurtling him to the ground.
The snow settled. 
Wollen's scornful grin came to sight; he was standing in the same place, seeming unaffected by the double kick. 
'You only blind yourself,' he uttered.
Dumbstruck, Haji stared at the creature while trying to understand just how it had seen his move. It could not be an infra-red sensor for the cold snow would blind all heat emission.
Smiling at Haji's incredulous stare, the creature tapped his finger next to a cavity on the metallic plate that coated the left side of his skull, 'Ever heard of pressure waves?' he asked mockingly.
No sooner had he spoken than Haji realized he would not manage to stop him much longer. Coming to terms with the dire situation he was in, he knew his only solution was to run to the street and alert any sentinels passing by. But he recovered his concentration only to foresee another onslaught of jabs, hooks and kicks, and the confrontation prolonged for a few unwavering minutes without presenting any victor.
After countless near hits, when Haji had finally managed back away towards one end of the alley, the creature dashed past him with impossible speed. With his back turned against him, Haji sensed that some new unknown threat was imminent, and he immediately threw himself to the ground, just before a lance sprouted from Wollen's claw and struck the impermium wall like a hammer striking solid metal. 
Haji rolled over one shoulder and quickly got up. Only then he saw the long lance sprouting from the creature's metallic arm as it pricked the left wall of the alley. The lance slowly recoiled inside his claw as Wollen stood upright, staring at him calmly.
'Impressive,' he said. 'Let's see if you can avoid this as well.'
Wollen's face was filled with an expression of sheer anger and his pale gray eye was lit with a bloody red glow. Almost instantly, the fleshy arm grew to twice its size, his clenched hand becoming like a solid block of flesh.
The shock of what Haji was seeing broke his awareness and what could have been a prediction of a vicious blow quickly became the blow itself: the creature's bulging hand flew against his chest giving him only the time to raise his forearms to block it. 
The impact was so overwhelming that it shattered Haji's left forearm and threw him backwards. Overwhelmed with sharp pain, Haji was soon struck by a vicious barrage of jabs that lit the alley in red each time Wollen's hand struck his body. Then, one hook to the face sent Haji's facemask flying to one side and his body crashing to the ground. 
The freezing wind pierced his face as he curled up in pain, his eyelids shut, his teeth clenched in agony. His body was aching, feeling the metallic flavor of his own blood wandering around his mouth as he rolled on the floor. He heard the creature's footsteps crunching the snow as he approached.
Wollen dropped to one knee and drew his scarred face close to Haji's kind face, now flushed from the cold. He picked up the facemask with the tips of his thin metallic fingers, brought it to Haji's face and squeezed it into place in an abrupt and unkind way.
Now that his face was inside the protective layer, Haji sat on his legs and opened his eyes to see the abominable creature merely a breath away. He saw his raging expression return to a calm deformed countenance and his arm collapse back to its normal, albeit muscular size.
'Now...are you ready to tell me where you hid the specimen?' Wollen asked with his harsh voice, its warm breath fogging up Haji's facemask visor.
A thought warned Haji of how easy it would be to carve a swift right hook on the creature's fleshy left cheek. Just after he foresaw the success, he threw his fist. 
The punch did not carry much strength, for he was in great pain and exhausted, but the force was sufficient to rip though the creature's decomposed flesh and sink into its teeth, the jaw detaching itself and his head coiling to the side.
Haji rolled away and slowly rose to his feet, gaining some distance in the process.
'Not quite ready yet,' he said between exhausted breaths.
Wollen shook his head disapprovingly. He got up slowly, reattached his jaw, and spat a pair of rotten teeth into the white snow, smearing it with spatters of dark blood.
'You should not have done that,' he said in the same manner as before. 
Just as Haji stared attentively at the creature, trying to foresee its next assault, his mind became abruptly shrouded in darkness.
The last thing he saw was the blood red ember gleaming on the creature's pale gray eye, just before it vanished. 
Wollen delivered a crushing blow to his face, his feet were lifted off the ground, his body spun in midair and he fell face down on the snow.
He coughed once, his lungs drew one last meager breath, and his heart gave out.
Then, there was nothingness.
...not even after a thousand deaths would I spare you from retribution...

***

'Haji!' you cried out in despair.
Standing next to Haji's lifeless body, Wollen turned to look at you. He crossed his arms patiently and chuckled at your feeble attempt to drag yourself along the wall towards him. 
He leaned his head onto the left shoulder and sneered in contempt.
'Haven't you had enough?' he asked.
With two simple hops he covered the distance between you and sunk a knee in your ribs. The air from your lungs was sucked out as you flew to the ground. 
As you lay on the snow, gasping for air that refused to enter your lungs, he gripped your head with his enormous fleshy hand and lifted you high above the ground. You felt your skull being crushed by the tremendous pressure and out of sheer instinct for survival you grabbed his wrist, howling in pain.
He chuckled mockingly when he saw tears rolling down your anguished face. 'Tell me where your friend took the girl and I will stop hurting you.'
The piercing cold worsened your efforts to breathe. You could barely open your eyes, but still you opened them and locked them onto the creature's pale eye. Your innocent young features shifted from gentleness to somberness as if you had become a grim, proud pyrean.
'You will never find her,' you uttered in a coarse voice.
Wollen widened a rotten smile.
'My, my...she is fast to work her charm,' he mocked. 'My master told me she is the most beautiful thing one can lay eyes upon. That a mere glance from her can steal one's will. I might just have my fun with her before I deliver her to him,' he said and licked his chapped lips with a horrendous dark tongue.
His words filled your mind with anger and your eyes were kindled with rage. You growled through gritted teeth and your arms began to convulse and grow larger only to stop just before becoming as big as the creature's.
Upon seeing the change, Wollen was struck with a mix of wonder and delight. 'You want to punish me? You want to hurt me for what I did to your friend?'
He clenched his claw around your left forearm and you felt a surge of electricity course through your body, causing you to writhe in uncontrollable spasms. Sharp pain stung your mind as the forearm with your Unit erupted in sparks.
'Show me how much,' he said, his deformed voice burning through the sharp pain, consuming your every thought.
A fiery rage took complete hold of you. All the pain was suppressed by a burning sensation and your body began to grow uncontrollably, your head becoming too large for Wollen's hand to grasp. With one increasingly growing hand, you grabbed his stretched out arm and with impossible strength snapped it in two with a single crushing grip. Then you clenched your other hand around his neck and lifted him even higher above the ground, his feet flapping away as you gripped his neck ever tighter. You had become almost twice his size and your face had been twisted beyond recognition, becoming the face of wrath, eyes burning like two boiling embers, teeth crushed in uncontrollable rage.
...I will destroy you...
When you spoke those words, your voice was unlike any sound you had uttered before. It was guttural, seeming more the deep bellow of a beast than the voice of a young pyrean. Your oversized hand was about to snap Wollen's neck when something cold pierced into your abdomen, drove through your gut and erupted from your back. You looked down to see a long silver lance plunged into your abdomen.
Without warning, the cold lance was instantly heated, singing your insides and cauterizing the wound. Then, you were struck by a shock wave of pain and were immediately deprived of all the rage that flowed through your body. Your overgrown hand, once firmly clenched around the Wollen's neck, collapsed back to its normal size and fell limp at your side. Your body slowly shrunk to its normal size, and your unrecognizable grimace receded to an expression of wonder as you sunk to your knees and keeled over.

***

A chilling wind blew on your face as your consciousness sunk into an ever-darker abyss. In its last flicker, you felt a remote and repetitive clanking of metal striking metal and the waning murmur of a heart. You sensed it skip a beat, and then pulsate hesitantly. It thumped once more, faintly, and then again, strong and lively, as one announcing the deathly silence that followed...
Prelude to Ascension

A single resounding boom echoed in a darkened void. In the still silence that followed, the boom reemerged, turning into a slow persistent thumping, whose vibrant waves began to stir the void. Beleaguered by the unrelenting clamor, an entity began its sluggish awakening, slowly becoming aware of the resonance that threatened to destroy the dark foundations where it had slept for an eternity. The thumping grew louder, and the walls of the void began to crack, and from the gaps that began to form, sprouted slender beams of light that bathed the entity with an indistinct sense of warmth. And as the cracks grew larger, the pitch-black shards that broke free from the walls began to fall into the infinite void, like the last drops of rain in an everlasting night. Drop by drop they fell, as the unremitting clamor shattered the lingering foundations, and when the very last shard was felled by the very last clamor, which was clearer, stronger, more vibrant than any other, a blast of light vanquished the darkness and bathed the entity in pure white. And where once was darkness, now there was light. It was then that the entity became aware of herself. Her senses awoke, and she felt the warm embrace of the light surrounding her and heard for the first time the distant singing that echoed in the infinite white. Like voices from a choir bound together by harmony they sang, and she felt the desire to merge herself with them, and so she did. She felt their presence surround her, become her, and she rejoiced, for now she knew her eternal solitude had come to an end. Now she was a whole, a golden mist formed by a boundless host of souls that sang to her an eternal gestalt of music.



End of Part I of Ascension


