Eleventh memory - Fugitives in Darm

''They shall be powerful and agile, beautiful and intelligent. They will rise beyond mortality and become the embodiment of all virtues that Mankind so fruitlessly sought to achieve. In one word, they shall be perfect.''

An excerpt rescued from the last diary of Gadim: the Homo Universalis;


Outside Cathy's skyscraper, not a gust of wind could be felt. The black clouds were still settling above Darm, and the avenues were so calm that neither you nor Haji could have ever foreseen the peril that would soon fall upon you, for instead of heading towards a good night's rest, you and Haji entered the bright South Boulevard and walked towards the Hub to try your way inside.
The Boulevard's white marbled pavement was as shimmering and dry as ever, for its tiles were heated and porous so that any snow or ice falling on it would melt and the water would drain. After coming between the two Air Intake Fields flanking the South entrance to the Hub, you and Haji stopped at a distance from the imposing plasma barrier. Under the lighted gap you had crossed earlier that day, you could still see the same squad of six sentinels guarding the access with untiring alertness. 
Haji sat on one of the large, heated benches that split the Boulevard in two. He was pleased to be back inside his green uniform, although he felt that his animal attire had suited him very well.
'Stay here,' you said to him through your facemask's speaker.
You approached the checkpoint alone to confirm the assumption Haji had made regarding entrance in the Hub. Stepping into the arched gap, two sentinels moved to block your passage and you heard Mother's gentle voice coming from one of their blue featureless facades:
'At present time, darmians are not allowed inside the Hub. My apologies for the inconvenience, apprentice Balthazar. Order ensures progress.'
'It is important that I enter,' you said firmly.
'At present time, darmians are not allowed inside the Hub. For matters of urgency, please contact Mentalist Vittas. Order ensures progress.' the sentinel repeated in the same manner, only to stand before you, unflinchingly, like a solid statue. 
The irony of contacting the Mentalist responsible for darmian security to sneak around in a restricted area was not lost on you. You let out a frustrated sigh and turned back to join Haji again.
He was still sitting calmly next to the warm gust of air coming from a ventilation box, already knowing what the outcome of your attempt would be.
'Mother won't let us in,' you muttered.
'I assumed as much,' he answered through his facemask's speaker.
'We could create a distraction that would force the sentinels to leave their post and then slip inside,' you suggested.
'I hardly doubt Mother would leave the entrance unguarded,' he answered unaffectedly. 'And have you considered the consequences of being caught?'
'We could activate the Signal Re-Route,' you suggested tentatively.
Haji did not even bother to reply.
...find a way in...
You grunted in dismay. 'There must be a way in! Can't you think of anything?'
'I do not believe there is one, Alan,' he said kindly. 'It is certain that all entrances are equally secured, and the plasma barrier encircling the Hub is very much impenetrable.'
'So, we are just going to give up?' you asked.
'My apologies, Alan, but there is not much I can think of. Mother is vastly more intelligent than any of us and her droids have unerring perception. Even if, somehow, we had managed to gain access to the Hub, in no way would we be able to evade so many sentinels, not to mention the drones,' he said and pointed at the specks of light glowing dimly in the dark sky above the Hub.
It was hard for you to admit, but Haji was right. Mother's use of the Darmian Security Droids as her proxy allowed her an almost omnipresent supervision of Darm. But this was what made the matter all the more intriguing to you. How could she have let the Specialists escape the Project Facility in the first place? And how could it be that she has not found them yet?
'However, there is a related matter that I did not tell you until now, mostly because I wanted something to cheer you up after your foiled attempt,' Haji said. 'If you say you found the bracelet outside the Hub and if the bracelet indeed belongs to the Specialists, that means they might be outside already.'
You stared at him, quietly considering the possibility. If that was indeed true, then you were at liberty to search for them in the other sectors, you thought. As you gazed absentmindedly into the Air Intake Field to your right, you remembered where you had found the bracelet and the most obvious of hypothesis came to you.
'I have an idea of just where they might be,' you said enthusiastically. 'Follow me.'
You started heading back down the South Boulevard, close to the edge of the left Air Intake Field.
Haji got up in a hurry. 'I did not mean that we should go looking for them,' he asked, his voice denoting concern.
 'No, no... were just heading back,' you answered furtively as you hastened your pace.
'Why do I sense that you are going to get us in trouble?' Haji said, hurrying to stand by your side.
You chuckled. At this point you had cleared the South Boulevard and were walking along the edge of the Air Intake Field, towards the East Boulevard, where you had found the bracelet.
'So, you and Sophie,' you said in between hurried breaths, while taking short glances inside the darkened field, where tall towers pulled in the freezing air above the metropolis.
'We will become Companions,' stated Haji.
'I'm happy for you. And for her,' you said hastily.
'What about you and Cathy?' he asked. 'I assume you discussed about companionship with her when you were alone in the balcony?'
You remembered the moment when you and Cathy kissed. 'Sort of...but I decided not to be her companion.'
'For what reason?' Haji asked.
'For no reason,' you answered evasively, peering inside the Field again.
'If there is no reason, your decision does not make sense.'
'Well, there is a reason,' you retorted with indifference. 'She kissed me when we were alone in the balcony. But I didn't feel anything. Anything other than her wet lips, that is.'
Despite being surprised with Cathy for breaching a Directive, he followed his line of reasoning, 'And you allowed the absence of feelings to serve as grounds for a decision?'
You shrugged and chuckled. 'I guess I did.'
'Why?' he asked, utterly confused.
You sighed. 'It just doesn't seem right to be with someone if you don't feel anything when you kiss her.'
'Alan, be reasonable,' and Haji's voice showed concern and care. 'You and Cathy have been friends since the start of apprenticeship and you have always been in good terms with each other. As best as I can reason, she seems to be the most suitable companion for you. You should not throw away the opportunity to be with her out of lack of an emotional response to a physical intimacy.'
You stopped on your feet to ponder his point of view, staring into the Air Intake Field in front of you. Anguish began to boil inside you, and you felt increasingly confused about your decision.
'You should not let feelings overcome reason, Alan. If you miss the opportunity to choose her now, Mother will choose someone for you with which you might not have any common interest.' Haji said, concluding thoughts, and were his face not hiding under his facemask and you would have seen his witty smile.
You looked at him and smiled. 'You're probably right,' you admitted with modesty.
At that moment, Haji turned his attention to the residences on his right.
'Our residences are that way,' he said, and pointed to the large blocks of houses standing quietly in the dark.
'I know,' you said with resolve.
You approached the waist-high wall, the gust of the towers gently pulling you in. You glanced from side to side and when you made sure that no sentinel was watching, you raised one leg over the wall.
Almost immediately, you heard Haji's nervous whisper from behind you, 'Alan, what are you doing?'
 'I'm stepping inside,' you said as you landed one foot on the other side.
'We are not allowed inside the Air Intake Fields. It is very dangerous. We could get caught by a draft and sucked into one of the air inlets.'
'All the more reason to see if there is a Specialist in need of assistance inside,' you retorted wittily.
Haji's voice rose to a loud whisper, 'Do not climb that wall, Alan Balthazar. Mother knows you will!'
Your feet landed on the pavement on the other side.
An eerie silence followed.
You looked back and smiled, 'Still haven't received any message.'
'Just wait and see. The sentinels will be here in no time,' he said, and his voice was now considerably aggravated for he was starting to realize you were beyond reasoning.
Still, the silence remained undisturbed. No clanging of metallic feet was heard in the distance. Only the quiet gust of air rushing above your heads.
You let out the thought that had been brewing in your mind, 'Haji, I found the bracelet near the edge of this very Field. The Specialists could be hiding here. Don't you want to see the Torment for yourself?'
Haji looked at you quietly, his concern hiding behind the facemask. He was moved by your appeal. Even so, he answered in sound judgment, 'Not if it implies being banned from Darm. Mother knows where we are! And the Torment is very dangerous. The Specialists are not themselves. We could be endangering our existences if they see us.'
'Well, I am going,' you said stubbornly. 'And if I recall correctly, you said you were accompanying me to see to my safety, did you not?'
'I did,' he said, knowing where that line of thought was headed.
You added in a mischievous manner, 'So, if I am going, you should come too, edgy.'
He stared at you silently. Then, he took a deep breath. 'This will not end well,' he said before stepping over the wall.

It was not long before you were lost in the dark, quiet maze of towers, and neither Boulevard nor plasma barrier could be seen. Howling above you, were furious gusts of frozen air being sucked into the air inlets of the tall towers, whose beacons of light at the top faintly lit your way. The wind was relentless, and even though it was not strong enough to pull you into the air inlets, it was strong enough to hinder your movements significantly. So, you trudged on with great effort, towards where, you did not know.
'We will never find anything in this storm,' you heard Haji's calm voice in your mind as a freezing wind raged through you, throwing you off balance.
You could not disagree with him. Not only were you unable to see anything further than two meters ahead, but the idea of being attacked without any warning by a specialist suffering one of the manifestations presented to you in Fundaments of Existence was starting to make you feel nervous.
'A few more minutes and we leave,' you conveyed the thought to him, more to reassure yourself.
Suddenly, a shrill cry broke through the wailing wind. Were it a scream you could not say, but its haunted echo carried an ominous feeling. 
You froze in place, peering into the darkness between the towers to your left.
'Did you hear that?' you conveyed the thought to Haji.
'It seems to have come from there,' Haji's voice answered as he pointed into the dark labyrinth of towers. His next thought came with unease, 'Alan, we should leave.'
The feeling that you were endangering not only your existence, but the existence of your best friend finally became too much to ignore. 'All right. You're right. Let's go back,' you answered, and started heading towards Haji, who was just a few meters behind you.
Just as you were about to reach Haji, something big hit you with such strength, that your facemask flew off your face and you were thrown to the metallic pavement. The connection you had established with Haji was immediately severed as an overwhelming dizziness engulfed your every thought.
Haji ran to you and kneeled. 'What happened?' he asked aloud, his voice greatly amplified by the facemask's speaker.
It felt like you had been run over by a speeding glider. Your head was spinning around so frantically that you had to shut your eyes and lay very still just to avoid losing consciousness. 'Something big hit me,' you answered through clenched teeth.
He quieted himself and focused on his surroundings, but heard nothing except the wind raging through his raised hood.
Haji looked around nervously, but saw nothing except the dark shadows of the intake towers.
Then, to his surprise, three meters away from him, a body lying on the metallic pavement crackled into sight, steaming with water vapor. It wore a slim white exoderm with a belt and a lowered white hood covered its face.
'A Specialist,' Haji cried, even though he could not see more than a white figure.
When the figure would not stand up, he approached it cautiously.
'He seems unconscious,' he shouted through the gale between you.
You risked opening your eyes a little bit to look at him, but without the facemask, the freezing gale stung your eyes. 'Help me get up,' you shouted back.
Haji walked up to you, wrapped his arm around your back and helped you stand up as fast as you could manage. You head throbbed painfully, and the haziness you felt warned you that anything short of walking would send you back to the ground. Fighting the strong wind, you picked up your facemask, and after attaching it to your cold numb face you dragged your feet towards her and knelt next to Haji.
Haji pulled back the white exoderm on the figure's slender left forearm. 'He is not wearing any Unit,' he said after examining his forearm. 'He has to be one of the missing Specialists.'
As you admired the soft angular chin beneath the lowered hood, you felt a sudden desire to pull the hood back.
It was her. 
Your eyes widened in awe when you saw how beautiful her cool pale face was. Even more surprising was her hair, white as unspoiled snow, and it shimmered as snow does when the soft rays of morning hours gleam upon its frozen surface.
...I know her face...
This was when you saw her for the first time. Time seemed to stop, and the wind and towers faded into forgetfulness, as you lost yourself admiring her beautiful face. As you laid your eyes upon her, you had the strange feeling that you had seen her before, as if she were someone dear to you, someone you knew for a long time.
'I know her face,' you said in an awe-stricken tone.
'I am notifying Mother,' Haji shouted.
...stop him...
You shook your head, regaining your awareness.
