'No!' you cried. 'Wait!'
Breaking the link to his Unit, Haji stared at you and spoke apprehensively, 'Alan, she might wake up at any moment. Then what will happen?'
As the dizziness slowly faded, your thoughts became clearer. 'Does she look like she's suffering from the Torment?' you insisted, and when you looked at her again you lost yourself admiring her beauty once more.
Haji looked at her and hesitated. His reply was lost in a disconcerting surge of hypotheses as to who she was. After examining her attentively, he concluded that she was not one of the Project Specialists, for she was not wearing any uniform or insignia and no Specialists was as young as she seemed to be. Her mere appearance seemed too otherworldly for a darmian.
...help her...
'We have to help her,' you pleaded to him.
Even though Haji could not be entirely certain that she was not a Specialist, he felt that whoever she was, trying to help her would not end well for you and him.
'I don't think we should,' Haji shouted, the winds raging on relentlessly between you. 'I have a bad feeling about helping her.'
'Didn't you just tell me not to let feelings overcome reason?' you asked sternly.
Haji shook his head in disapproval.
'I'll carry her,' you promptly added. Ignoring the throbbing pain in your head, you lifted the girl to your arms. She was not very heavy, but she was taller than you.
'And where do you propose we take her?'
'Out of this Field for a start,' you shouted back, and you glanced around before heading out.
Haji sighed and followed you.

...it almost seems as if my past self heard me when I urged him to help her...
In a manner of speaking, he did. Yet, at the same time, your desire to help her came to you as a reaction to what your past self felt, for your present and past self are part of the same soul. You are one with him. His will is your will.
...then I can command myself to change the past...
There is no way for any soul to alter the Tides of Fate, be it by will or force, for it is a place that cannot be defined by time or space. The events you see here have already occurred in an infinite regression and at the same time are yet to occur in an infinite succession. As such, your future is, and will always be, a reflection of your past; and, at the same time, your past will always be a reflection of your future.
...I do not understand...
In time, you will. For now, know this. All that is to come in your existence as Alan Balthazar has already come and pass. The universe itself is but a fleeting glimmer of light, and as you linger here in the ebb and flow of life, you are seeing events as they truly are: visions of ages long gone.

And so, as you fled East through the countless towers, your weariness began to slow you down and you started to lag behind Haji. Although the girl was not heavy, you - like all darmians - were not used to carrying heavy objects, even less another person.
You leaned on a tower, your arms burning up from exhaustion. 'I cannot carry her any longer,' you shouted amidst your panting.
After gently laying the girl on the pavement, you slid your back down the tower and sat on the floor.
Haji crouched beside you and waited in silence for you to recover. 
As your strength slowly returned, your eyes were unconsciously drawn to girl once more. There was such calmness in her cool pale face that, when you lost yourself admiring her, something awoke inside you, an overwhelming fervor that rushed from within and overflowed to your thoughts.
'We have to hide her,' you said out of impulse.
'Have you lost all reasoning, Alan?!' Haji burst out desperately. 'Stepping inside an Air Intake Field is a serious breach of the Directives, but what you propose is far worse. She is most likely related to the missing Specialists, and we are endangering our existences merely by being close to her! And Mother knows we are here,' he added gravely. 'Our best course of action is to leave her here and return to our residences and await Mother's contact. We will surely have to face the consequences of what we have done.'
Haji would rarely lose his temper and you knew he was right. Still, you would not be discouraged. The sense of commitment towards the girl had become so strong that you would not think of anything other than helping her, 'If our Units have not yet received any notice from Her, chances are that She's not even aware of us being here.'
Strangely enough, as you spoke, the relentless winds were slowly abated, until an eerie quietness engulfed you.
Through the waning breeze, a faint clanging of metal came to your ears, distant at first, but every clang louder than the previous. You and Haji stared at each other, halting your breath and standing completely motionless, hoping the sound would go away.
Clink. Clank. Clink. Clank. The sound was approaching rapidly now, becoming easily discernible. You realized it was coming from the darkness above. You lifted yourself up and peered into the top of the towers. No air was being draw into them anymore. They had been deactivated.
Clank! Clank! Clank! Clank!
The last four clanks smashed the metallic floor with the shape of four evenly spaced pairs of claws. Your heart started pounding in your chest, when above the claw shaped marks, four slender droids, black as night, emerged out of thin air, encircling all three of you against the tower and denying you any chance to escape. They looked in many ways like sentinel droids, but their structure was slimmer and lighter, their limbs more agile and slenderer, and they bore no insignia of the D.S.D. on their chests. They were Stalkers, droids designed for the sole purpose of capturing darmians who had strayed too far from Darm's directives, and it was the first time you saw them.
Through their featureless visages came the automated voice of Mother in unison, 'Apprentices Alan Balthazar and Haji Donovan, you are to submit yourselves for peaceful arrest.'
Haji immediately dropped to his knees, bowing his head low and raising his arms forward so that his hands were out of his sight, following for the first time the Directive for arrest as best as he knew. Even though he was aware that there were severe consequences waiting ahead, he sighed with relief, believing that your senseless misconduct had been timely stopped, given that now you would have no other option but to obey Mother.
...what a fool...what short work he could have made of them if only he knew the power he held...
Contrary to what Haji had expected, you did not submit or surrender, neither bowing your head nor raising your arms. You did kneel, however, to gaze down at the girl's beautiful face and lift her up by placing her right arm around your shoulder and your left hand around her waist. Then, you surrendered to the desire to rebel that screamed inside your head:
'No,' you said imposingly.
Haji looked at you and spoke in shock, 'Alan?! Obey Her command. I beg you!'
Despite your defiance, Mother did not falter. Each of the four stalkers raised one of their dark slender arms at you, and from atop their forearms a small compartment with darts emerged. Her response was cold and uncaring:
'Apprentice Balthazar, you are to desist and surrender the specimen immediately. Failure to comply will lead to the use of tranquilizing darts.'
You stood defiantly, filled with the intense desire to stop them, but you did not know how. When despair was about to overcome your resolve, you felt the girl move in your arms and so you looked at her. She lifted her head and opened her eyelids, revealing two deep blue eyes. They gleamed with a light of their own, dim at first, but growing ever brighter.
With one effortless move, one droid aimed his forearm at the girl's neck and fired a single dart; his aim was true, and the dart carved itself in her bare neck. The girl grimaced, but at that moment, a burst of blue energy shook the air around you, knocking you to the ground, and sparks erupted from the joints of the four droids. Their heads and arms and legs became limp, and they came falling to the ground simultaneously, where they jerked in a spectacle of convulsions. When they stopped, the smell of burnt circuits emanated from their black inert shells.
'What happened?' said Haji, staring at the droids with incredulity.
The girl looked at you with her deep blue eyes. They were so compelling that you felt completely drawn to them. She opened her mouth as if to speak, but moaned faintly, before her head collapsed onto your chest and the weight of her body surrendered hopelessly to the strength of your arms.
Worry overcoming you, you lowered her and gently laid her on the pavement. She was eerily still.
'This can't be good,' you said to yourself.
You hastily removed the strange object from her neck; its tip was filled with a single drop of her blood. You pulled the exoderm of your forearm back and allowed the drop to fall onto your Unit; then, you issued it to scan the chemical components. The Unit conveyed to you that it had traces of a substance you knew to have sleep-inducing effects.
'She has been sedated,' you said, letting out a relived sigh and then looking at Haji, who was standing before the disabled droids fuming on the ground, his back turned to you.
'This incident is beyond reproach,' he said in complete dismay. 'It will most likely lead to our banishment. We will become Outcasts, like many before us.'
Upon hearing him, it struck you that he had just come from the Gathering, where he and Sophie had decided to become companions. He was a bright apprentice, one of the brightest of your generation, and all his expectations were close to being fulfilled. But now all seemed lost for him, and you were the sole responsible.
You shook your head in denial. 'The droids malfunctioned! We had nothing to do with that,' you cried out.
Haji would not even turn to look at you. 'It doesn't matter. The little chance we had of leaving the field without alerting Mother is gone.'
You forced yourself to gather some sense, but what had happened was too surprising. 'Haji, this girl is not one of the missing Specialists. There is more to this than what we were made aware.'
'True as that may be, there is nothing we can do to help her,' he said dejectedly.
'Don't you want to know who she is?!'
Haji turned to look at you. 'Alan, we have most likely jeopardized our citizenship. If we help her, we might even lose our existence.'
The feeling that you had to help the girl was so strong, that you promptly rejected his claim. You were determined to ensure her safety and you go as far as to ignore every Directive, confront any droid and sacrifice your existence if you had to.
'There is nothing we can do, Alan,' he said.
A reasonable solution came to your mind, 'We hide her in the Shelter. The dispersion field that envelops the chamber prevents any scans from detecting her. If we hide her there, she will be untraceable by any known sensors, even Mother's.'
Haji allowed himself to reason with you to try and make you understand the helplessness of the situation. 'Considering we manage to get there, how do you suggest we gain entry to the facility?'
'If we get there, that won't be a problem,' you replied with confidence.
Your answer could only lead him to one conclusion. 'You know the override code to the maintenance entrance?'
'I do. I saw it two weeks ago when Brent typed it in the touchscreen.'
'Mother changes those codes every week, Alan,' he stated.
'At least we have to try!'
 Haji shook his head in dismay. 
'Considering she has not changed it, how are we supposed to get there?' he asked condescendingly. 'We are to succeed in carrying the girl without alerting our presence to Mother?' he said. Following his line of thoughts, his reasoning led him to the inevitable fact, 'Alan, we have no chance of success. Our best course of action is to leave the girl and present ourselves to Mother for peaceful arrest. There might still be a chance to avoid our banishment if we request the Council's pardon and submit to cognitive rehabilitation,' he added in a warm consoling way.
...protect her...that is all that matters...
You had followed the Council's Directives without any other choice for so many years, that you could not bear the thought of submitting yourself to their will any further, especially because you had done nothing wrong. Combined with that resentment, the desire to help the girl became so strong, that you knew beyond doubt what you had to do. You clenched your fists and spoke in a solemn voice, 'I will hide her in the Shelter. You should not come. This is my decision and I should face the consequences alone.'
You tone carried such resolve, that it imprinted itself on Haji's mind like an undeniable truth. He knew he would not make you see reason. 'You are willing to forfeit your citizenship for a girl you do not know?'
You gazed once more at the girl lying helplessly on the pavement. She seemed to be resting peacefully now.
'I will not let Mother have her.'
Haji knew he could not reason with you any longer. He let out a frustrated sigh, glanced into the cold darkness that surrounded him and was drawn once more to the grave notion that he had broken several of the most important Directives that night.
'Then, I will go with you,' he said.
Overwhelmed with guilt, your voice lost all its resolve and was now a helpless plea, 'Haji, no. You should return to your residence.'
'I would never leave you alone, troublemaker,' he replied with warm compassion. 'Besides, my help will improve your odds of success.'
...I remember now...the day I tried to encourage my colleagues to skip indoctrinations...he has the same look as when he faced the Overseers that came to arrest me...
He was but a young boy, yet he stood stubbornly between you and the two tall figures of authority, denying them passage.
'But we cannot allow Mother to find out the location of the Shelter. That would risk Brent's citizenship as well,' he added. 'I suspect that if we attempt to return to our residences we will be arrested. That leaves us with only one solution. We must activate the Signal Re-Route remotely.'
Activating the Signal Re-Route remotely could risk everything that Haji had planned for his future. Mother would notice the inconsistency in your location and once you were arrested, your units would be examined. It would be easy for any technician to see that they had been tampered with, and the consequences of that were beyond cognitive rehabilitation. All that would be left for him would be the ominous void of uncertainty.
'Done,' he said and looked at you with lively eyes.
You were disappointed with yourself for having cornered him into helping you and you felt as weary as a retired citizen. You gave him a frail smile from underneath your facemask and expanded your consciousness towards your Unit, focusing on conveying the thought of activating the Signal Re-Route.
'Done,' you said soberly. Then you lifted the girl into your arms. 'Let's go.'

...he risked his life to help me...
That is what a true friend does in times of need. But his actions were not entirely selfless. He found it deeply disturbing to see those menacing droids under Mother's command, and when he saw the girl wearing no Unit and seeming entirely unaffected by the Torment, he began to consider that the account of the missing Specialists had been a clever fabrication, forged to conceal what had really happened. It was an immensely disturbing thought for someone not accustomed to lies and deceit. He felt his trust in the Council was being put on trial and that finding out who the girl was would be the defining action that would allow him to trust them once more. Therefore, he helped you not only because he was worried about your safety, but also because he needed to know the truth.

