When you entered the suite's common room, you were immediately awed by the decoration and the countless number of apprentices coated with animal attires. Before you, was a tall vast hall with four supporting columns as large as the ones from the lobby, but these were covered by display curtains, the same type used in the Retreat's booths. These took on the guise of brown tree bark, whereas the curtains on the ceiling and the floor were correspondingly dark green and grassy green, which gave the columns the appearance of trunks of trees and the ceiling and floor of leaves and grass. On the four corners of the vast hall were large tables filled with appetizers and hundreds of apprentices were snacking around them, wearing the most unusual animal attires. Others were enjoying the marvelous sight beyond the round window-wall that comprised the entire outer wall of the hall. Beyond it, the air outside was already thick with snow.
 'This is quite impressive,' Haji said.
You heard him, but your mind was turned to your surroundings, ands as you wandered inside the hall, eyes widened, you felt a hazy sensation of familiarity with the forest projected onto the display curtains, with the animal attires walking about, with the soft verdant fragrance being conveyed into your Unit by scent-inducing brainwaves. The boundaries of reality blurred and mingled with the faint reminiscence of something you had long dreamt. Every detail seemed to represent the scent and look of things long gone, things that were claimed by fate and vanished, never to return.
...I see trees as tall as towers...I breathe the soft smell of flowers...I sink into the green and blue...and I am reborn anew...
Words that shall forever be remembered. For, you see, there is a bond between all life that cannot be severed by indoctrinations or split apart by great walls. Even if neither of you had ever seen a tree nor felt the fragrance of nature, you shared a connection to them, and it felt to you, that the decoration was as real as life.
'Alan?' Haji called you.
You looked at him absentmindedly. 'What?'
'I said, Cathy put the suite to good use,' he repeated.
'She did...indeed,' you said, even though you still did not pay attention.
Walking towards a great round table at the center, an apprentice attired with an imposing animal prowled towards you and Haji and blocked your way, raising his arms up high and arching his fingertips as if they were retractable claws. He was enveloped in a long mantle of golden fur and had a huge thick mane on his head with two pointy ears perching from it at the top. His face was painted in shades of brown and yellow and his big nose and lips were splattered in white and brown hues. A charming odor emanated from him, too out of place for his attire, but appropriate enough for an apprentice that enjoyed scented cleansing gel, which could be ordered at the Support Center and whose scent could be customized. 
He widened his jaws and roared menacingly.
'Salutations, Jack,' Haji greeted him and bowed.
His brown and yellow cheeks shrunk with disappointment, and he threw down his arms. 'What gave me away?' he asked.
'Other than already knowing the animal you chose?' Haji said. 'The distinctive fragrance of your cleansing gel.'
'I knew I shouldn't have showered,' he said, jolting his head and slapping one leg. 'Nevertheless, beware or I will ravage you with my smile,' he said, raising his arms again and pointing his claws at him.
'I wouldn't do that,' Haji said and grinned. 'You might intimidate your potential companion.'
He fell into a casual relaxed posture. 'I am only rehearsing for my presentation,' he said. Then he took a moment to examine Haji's attire. 'I have to admit. You look good. I never thought you would look exactly like the image on the touchscreen.'
'And that is how you recognized me,' Haji concluded.
Jack shook his huge mane from side to side, flaunting it as he combed it with both his paws. 'Well, flattering as it may be, you still do not look as good as I,' he said and unleashed his big smile.
Impressively enough, it seemed to you almost as huge as the mane itself.
'I was right,' you said to Haji. 'Not even the mane can compete with his smile.'
Your comment caught his attention, and he gave you a harsh stare. He still had not forgotten what had happened during mentor Gordon's indoctrination.
'And what happened to you? Did you somehow exceed the daily dosage of nutrients for the entire year in one day?'
'I wouldn't dare to compete with you,' you said and smiled.
'Good for you, because no one can compete with me!' he stated, striking Haji with another smile.
You still felt guilty for what had happened to him, so you thought it was best to be nice and let him have his proud moment.
'You seem to have prepared well for the Gathering,' Haji stated after studying his behavior. 'Have you chosen your companion already?'
Jack's smile was shattered into a toothy grimace. He let out a frustrated sigh and answered, 'I have. But I still haven't asked her. I hope I do until the end of the evening. Imagine ending up with Leonard,' he glanced sideways and pointed with one thumb to a bulky Elephas Maximus leaning alone on a wall. 'How fun would that be?'
'Does it even matter?' you said serenely. 'Companions are merely intended to share the same residence and look after the descendants appointed to them.'
Jack lifted his chin high as and spoke proudly, 'It matters to me. I shall have a female companion, and together we shall present Darm with the most attractive descendant ever: Jack Thompson Junior.'
You chuckled amusedly.
Haji gave him a sly smile and stated, 'Your expectations might deceive you. You're basing yourself on the assumption that a girl would want to be your companion.'
With his head, Jack nudged towards a round group of feral pyreas. Some were ogling at him discretely and sharing inaudible comments and giggles. 'I am making no assumptions,' he answered, flashing an overconfident smile. He then pointed to the great round table, 'Now, come taste the appetizers my caretaker designed.'
At that moment, a Pan troglodyte and a Macropus giganteus entered the hall coming from the coatroom, and as you examined their attires you knew them to be Samuel and Markus, two fellow apprentices from your class. Sophie and Cathy were following behind. Cathy stopped to talk to some finalists while Sophie winked at Haji and called him with one index finger.
'If you excuse me, I will go talk to my future companion,' Haji bowed and went to meet with her near the permaglass wall.
'Wait, what? Don't go!' Jack said, signaling him back, but Haji was already on his way. 
'Well, that leaves you,' he said to you in a displeased manner.
'Lead the way,' you answered, smiling through your black and white fur.

As you reached the large table, you noticed the hundreds of apprentices around it, chewing with delight. You stopped before it to look at a seemingly endless assortment of the most unusual geometrical appetizers, each piling up on different trays. There were wobbling gelatinous solids, big and small, each with different shapes and colors, ranging from yellow hexagonal pyramids to orange pentagonal prisms, to brownish irregular heptahedrons and multicolored octahedrons the size of a clenched fist. But the most massive spectacle was standing at the center of the table: an exact replica of Cathy made of hardened gelatin, from small toes to curly red hair. One of her hands was lifted in a greeting gesture while the other seemed to have been chopped off.
'Cathy ate it!' Jack promptly explained when he saw you looking at the mutilated arm.
'Apart from that, it looks really impressive,' you answered kindly. 'It looks like an edible version of her.'
'I made it myself. I had a hard time not to eat it,' he whispered to himself, however too loud.
When your looked at his melancholic gaze, you sensed in him a mixture of conflicting feelings as assorted as the appetizers themselves. Grief blended with joy, passion merged with uncertainty, until an overwhelming dread poured from his lips, 'Do not say a word to Cathy!'
You smiled. 'You have my word,' you said and pressed your lips.
'About what happened today at the indoctrination,' he said embarrassedly. 'I accept your apology. But we're not even. Do not think that I will forget it was you that---!'
Just as he spoke, an extremely elegant female apprentice coated with the most unusual animal approached the table and stopped next to you. Jack's attention was immediately drawn to her curvy shape and stopped mid-sentence, his dumbstruck mouth open, when she leaned over the table to examine the appetizers. Her body was entirely coated in iridescent scales, which refracted the dim light coming from the chandeliers hanging above, and when she stretched her arm to pick up a cup from the table, the scales shifted from red to green to blue in a dazzling spectacle of colors. She realized Jack was staring at her, and when she turned her eyes to him, Jack immediately pointed to a tray and spoke to you in a hasty, yet unusually eloquent manner:
'And here you have my caretaker's famous nutrient hips---I mean strips!---made with a vitamin complex and glucose, and infused with a unique flavoring, which only he knows the chemical composition of!'
You picked up a strip and tried it, happy that he had already forgotten about the incident. At first you chewed it with care, but when you felt the sweet and sour flavoring, you chewed it with pleasure. 
'Tasty!' you remarked with delight.
Jack was not even listening. He was still stealing sidelong glances at the girl as she leaned over. He was trying not to seem obvious while desperately attempting to recognize her, but under all the scales it was impossible for him to figure out who she was.
You looked at him as you chewed.
'Would we be even if I told you who she is?' you asked.
'You know who she is?!' he whispered with eagerness close to your ear.
You nodded at him with indifference, 'It's Marlene.'
Jack's eyes widened in disbelieve. 'Marlene?! Pale Marlene?' he whispered, raising one eyebrow and staring at her. 'She looks so...colorful. Are you sure?'
You chuckled. 'She does. I suppose that's why she chose that attire.'
Marlene was becoming clearly uncomfortable with Jack's barefaced stare. For a moment, it seemed that her face was becoming pale, just before she turned and left, her scales glistening as she walked over the grassy floor.
Staring at her as she left, Jack said, 'Well pink suits her very well, as does red. And blue. And look at that purple waist,' unable to resist anymore, he added. 'I think I will go talk to her.'
You could not hold your laughter, imagining the result of his attempt to impress her. 'You do that. Just don't ravage her with your smile.'
'Of course not!' he answered with such a wicked and wide grin that even with the scarce light his teeth shone as bright as Mithras. 
He prowled over to her, preening his huge brown mane.
'Someday that smile will get him in trouble,' you heard Cathy's voice behind you.
'Definitely,' you answered.
Then both of you turned to see Jack, flashing a smile towards Marlene, while she smiled back shyly.
'But this is the occasion it suits him best,' you added.

