You stopped and dismounted from the hoverboard, placed it under your right arm and followed on foot, leisurely entering the Boulevard and walking along other citizens. There was an unusually high influx of citizens crowding the Boulevard, and as you gazed down towards the Hub, you noticed four long lines of citizens that stretched down the avenue. To your surprise, you saw that next to the tall ducts of the Air Intake Field surrounding the access to the Hub, the entry had been blocked by a tall plasma barrier . It seemed like a thin layer of undulating water, transparent and blue, and detachments of sentinels were supervising four narrow arch-like holes in it, where the lines of citizens slowly entered and exited the Hub. 
'No way...' you muttered to yourself, realizing that you would not get the indoctrination on time.
Impatiently jumping behind one of the lengthy queues of citizens, you began to wonder the consequences of arriving late. As far as you could recollect, there had not been any occasion where an apprentice arrived late at the academy, or any other darmian at their occupation for that matter. Darm was designed to be the most efficient system ever made. To that end, darmians had been trained at young age to follow the Directives as orderly as possible, and the Unit ensured that their metabolism was always kept in perfect balance. It was through that order, that progress was ensured. Still, it was the most unusual morning there was any memory of. You looked around you, trying to find some clue as to what was happening, and as you sluggishly followed the line down the Boulevard, you noticed an unusual glitter on the floor inside the Air Intake Field to your right.
...I know that bracelet...
Captivated by the reflection of the Mithras's light upon it, you stepped out of the line and approached the waist-high wall as casually as you could. You examined the small object from a distance. It was a small piece of metal connected to a strip. You thought for a second if whatever it was, was worth stepping inside the Air Intake Field and breach the Directives with so many citizens behind you. Then again, you thought it could offer some clue as to what was happening. You looked over your shoulder, to the queue you had just left. They seemed entirely absorbed in their effort to orderly walk towards the access point, as if they lacked any other purpose than entering the Hub. 
...go inside and pick it up...
No darmian in their sound judgment would enter an Air Intake Field, deliberately or not. But you felt so strangely compelled to that object, that without any other thought, you stepped over the fence and picked it up, only to quickly step back into the Boulevard. You clasped the object in your hand and returned to the orderly line. It seemed as if no one even noticed you, except for the citizen behind you, who gave you a surprised stare when you stepped in front of her. 
From your Unit's passive identifier, you knew her to be administrator Celine.
'My apologies, administrator Celine. I dropped something and am returning to the line,' you said, hoping she would leave the matter at that.
'Apology accepted. You may stay in front of me. Order ensures progress, apprentice Balthazar' said the middle aged pyrea and bowed.
'Order ensures progress, administrator Celine,' you returned the gesture and breathed a sigh of relief after you faced forward.
Holding the object as you followed the queue, you felt it soft to the touch. When you discretely opened your hand to examine it, you saw it was a thin and short white strip made of an elastic material. Firmly bound to it was a small metallic plate with the letter ''A''. On the edges of the strip, were the two ends of a magnetic clasp, both stamped with a smooth ellipse. When you tried the strip around your wrist you realized that when the clasps connected the two ellipses formed a prone 8.
...infinity...
With your thoughts wrapped around that image, you bumped against something soft.
When you looked up, you saw a tall middle aged darmian peering down at you wearing a white uniform. 'Pushing a citizen is considered a breach of the Directives for proper conduct, apprentice Balthazar,' he remarked, his apathetic stare revealing some indifference, yet his voice imprinted with subtle indignation. 'Were you not informed of that at the Academy?'
You identified his name through his Unit's signature and answered calmly while discretely stashing the elastic bracelet inside your utility belt, 'My apologies, Specialist Phelps. I was not aware that the line had stopped moving.'
Keeping his apathetic stare, the citizen answered before dismissing himself with a bow, 'Apology accepted. I understand that your distraction was a consequence of this exceptional delay. Order ensures Progress, apprentice Balthazar.'
'Order ensures Progress, administrator Phelps,' you answered bowing.
Like everyone else, you decided to pay attention to the queue in front to avoid drawing more attention to yourself. You secured the hoverboard under your right arm, and after waiting for your turn, a while that lasted less than you had anticipated, you crossed the checkpoint between the two rows of blue tinted sentinels, which examined you from top to bottom using their sensors, hidden beneath their featureless visors. They bore no weaponry of any sort - for their purpose was solely to be Mother's eyes and ears - but they were resilient, protected by an impervious layer of graphene from thin feet to light head. On their chest, they bore a silver insignia stamped with the golden tetrahedron, the Darmian Security Division symbol. 
Crossing between the rows of sentinels, you asked them for the reason behind the heightened security, but they did not answer. They were following Mother's protocol in silence.

Inside the Hub, security was even heavier. The bright clinking and clanking of the clockwork march of metallic feet could be heard on every walkway of every lane, while a few dozen meters above the D.S.D. drones ferreted the Hub with their infallible sensors.
With no time to ponder the reason for such scrutiny, you rushed past the entrance to the Academy. After crossing the front courtyard and entering the vast empty hallway, you stored the hoverboard on an automated shelf near the entrance and headed straight for your indoctrination room. 
When you entered, you interrupted mentor Gordon who was explaining the current situation to the filled room. He was a relatively young citizen of medium stature and a peculiar long face. His violet jacket was pressed tightly around his neck and his neurolink was perched on one of his big ears. You bowed silently and sat down.
'As I was saying,' he resumed disquietingly loud, 'Mentalist Vittas instructed us to clarify to you the circumstances concerning the plasma barrier around the Hub,' he paused and then resumed in an eloquent manner, for he had rehearsed the speech before the indoctrination. 'This past evening, a Torment outbreak occurred in one of the Project Facility laboratories. Mother promptly engaged her security measures and sealed the facility, but, after a thorough search, She determined that two Specialists were missing. Presently, they are still unaccounted for, and there is a chance that they are under the effects of the Torment.'
The apprentices began muttering anxiously, slowly filling the indoctrination room with a loud commotion.
'Apprentices, I urge you to remain calm,' the mentor instructed raising his voice.
The indoctrination room was instantly muted. Darmians suffering manifestations was a grave and unprecedented event, but they knew better than to lose formality. Concern filled every face, except yours. You were listening calmly, pondering the implications for yourself.
The mentor placed his hands behind his back and resumed as calm as ever, 
'Please bear in mind that all measures are being implemented to find and bring to safe observation these two citizens of Darm. As it is plain to see, the Hub is under containment and is being thoroughly searched by Mother's esteemed Darmian Security Division. She ensures us that they are confined to the Hub and that they will be found. If you paid close attention to your Citizen's Directives doctrine you are more than prepared for circumstances such as this, and if you paid close attention to the Fundaments of Existence doctrine you are also aware that any manifestation, if not prolonged, is entirely reversible. Rest assured that there is no reason for alarm and Darm will continue to operate with order. Our Guiding Father guarantees that the Torment does not affect us as long as we follow his Directives.'
You did not resist the urge to ask, 'How can he guarantee that?'
Mentor Gordon had anticipated that question. He straightened himself up, becoming statue as solemn as those seen on a fountain. Then he added emphatically, 'If you follow the Directives, you will not be affected by the Torment.'
...deception upon deception...every darmian under his sway...how he fooled them so well...
It is true that Gadim accomplished his vision under the veil of deception. But he only did what he thought best for the salvation of your kind. And to some extent, his device protected the Pyre from the ailment that afflicted all life.
...at the cost of freedom...
'So, the Specialists breached the Directives?' you asked with doubt. You had breached the Directives on a few occasions and had yet to suffer any manifestation.
Mentor Gordon gave you a stern look, 'That is yet to be determined and is not the subject of this announcement, apprentice Balthazar. I say again, rest assured that you are entirely safe and at liberty to proceed with your activities. The plasma barrier encircling the Hub is merely a precautionary measure that might prove to be entirely unnecessary. The Specialists will be found and treated,' he said, and without allowing time for more questions added, 'and now we shall start our Demography indoctrination, we have lost enough time as it is,' he straightened his jacket and continued in a formal tone, 'Who amongst you wishes to begin?'
Standing tall above the dais, he peered at his worried apprentices to find one eager to answer, until his eyes locked with yours. You hastily turned your attention to your neuropad in a futile attempt to demonstrate that you were busily conveying thoughts to it.
He smiled, 'Apprentice Balthazar,' he called out, and in his tone was a subtle satisfaction. 'Do you care to begin?'
Hearing your name stung you painfully. You grimaced and then gave him a solemn stare, 'My apologies, mentor Gordon, but I have not prepared today's indoctrination.'
A thin smile was cast upon the mentor's tall face. 'What a shame. Apparently, your ability to intervene in this doctrine does not stretch beyond inappropriate questions. Fifty credits removed for failing to accomplish the assigned task, and for arriving late.'
The removal of credits was automatically performed and privately notified by Mother. For that reason, his purpose in announcing it aloud was easily made clear to you: to shame you in front of your colleagues for your impertinence. You lowered your head, grieved by the penalty. It was a substantial amount and would damage your standing.
He then ignored you altogether and asked the class once more who wished to begin.
'I can begin, mentor Gordon,' Heidi said timidly, alarmed by the mentor's harshness towards you.
