''Opening general chat channel,'' said an admin through your helmet's headset.
In order to promote interaction between players, a general communications channel was kept open for the duration of the race. Many used it to gloat when they performed a nice maneuver, but mostly it was used to taunt an opponent with whom a racer was fighting for a position. It was a devious strategy to resort to psychological stress to win, but some players developed such a terrifying aptitude to eliminate opponents on account of provocations, that it became a widely accepted and even crowd-pleasing part of the game.
The moment the channel was opened, a pair of menacing eyes sheltered behind the visor of a chromed red helmet emerged on your HuD .
'Hello, my not so fellow darmians. Ready to get demolished, again?' said a voice with an unusual accent, the vowels strongly over-pronounced.
You sighed. You were never any good at answering to Zigvirat's provocations.
Tzivo, a player from team ''Watch yer' back!'' taunted him in return, 'The only ass gettin' demolished is gonna be yours, Zigvirat.'
'Shuttup!' Zigvirat snarled. 'I ain't talkin' to ya. I's talkin' to our special guests.'
Rist, Tzivo's teammate, threatened, 'Ya oughta watch y'er tone Zig, if ya wanna leave the game in one piece.'
You stepped in unworriedly, 'Don't bother Rist.'
Zigvirat's eyes smiled scornfully, and he mocked, 'Ah...so the pet can speak. I's starting t'a think your almighty daddy had forbidden that as well.'
Haji promptly intervened, 'If you are referring to our Guiding Father the answer is he has not. And I must inform you that any attempt of intimidation will invariably result in a needless waste of your concentration. This time we intend to finish the race, ahead of you.'
Zigvirat's squinty eyes narrowed to the point of seeming closed, 'Ya betta not even try darmian, unless you want to be wiped out, precociously.'
'I assume you mean to say prematurely,' Haji answered. 'If it comes to that, I shall make certain that I take you with me.'
Hovering in front of you, Zig Virat's chrome red drifter spewed irritated jet flames. 
'That is what we shall see,' he threatened with clear pronunciation.
''Sixty seconds boys and girls!'' the admin warned with excitement; the general chat could be heard by every spectator, and as the provocations heated up, they began to place their bets on the winner.
In the relative silence that followed, Haji established a private connection with you, leaving it open so you could share private comments during the race:
'Zigvirat and Dromuzit are going to control your approaches for certain,' you heard his voice coming from behind his blue helmet. 'You must not let their provocations distract you.'
Dromuzit, Zigvirat's overenthusiastic teammate, yelled through the general chat:
'PLACE YER BETS! Who's gonna be the first to turn to dust!'
'I will control the rear line,' added Haji, a calm confidence in his voice. 'All you are required to do is prevent them from placing their drifters alongside yours.'
Deadrun, from team ''Faster than U!'' riposted to Dromuzit's taunt: 
'I gotta feelin' it's gonna be you. Ya gonna drift into the stars, headed for that one up there, the one yellow like yer teeth.'
Zigvirat mocked, 'You just stay last like you always do, Deadrun.'
''Fifteen seconds!'' the admin warned.
'I'M GONNA SMASH YOU TO BITS!' yelled Dromuzit, letting out a hysterical laugh afterwards.
You replied to Haji nervously, 'Easier said than done.'
''10, 9, 8...''
The powerful combustion engines powered up to full throttle, buzzing vibrantly and spewing long torrents of blue fire that stretched several meters along the incandescent grids of the pavement. Across the starting lane, the drifters, whose coloring varied from matte black to electric green, had turned into unstoppable projectiles, eagerly waiting to be released from their magnetic locks. Inside your translucent cockpit, the violent vibration was one jolt away from shredding your drifter to pieces, yet you smiled with joy, pulling the hem of your gloves before softly grabbing the handles next to your knees.
'May the best win,' you said to Haji through the private chat.
'May we be the best,' Haji answered.
''...Three. Two. One!''
When the starting lights turned green, the magnetic locks retracted, and the drifters rocketed away with the sound of roaring thunders. 
Soon, the general chat was flooded with cries of excitement and euphoric laughter as trails of fumes were the only evidence left behind on the scorched starting grid.
Zigvirat swiftly stole the leadership from Rist on the first half-pipe, in a nerve-wracking overtaking that almost threw both out into the void as they rocketed around its edge. His teammate, Dromuzit, launched to fourth position and hastily encroached upon you as you struggled to tame your drifter, your hands tightly clenching the shuddering handles. In contrast, Haji had a soft start. He had lowered his drifter's burn to grant his position to a greedy opponent and dropped down to sixth. You heard Malaq's ecstatic taunt through the general chat as he overtook Haji, spewing his exhaust over his path.
''The Space-Trash Grand Prize has begun,'' said the admin's voice through the loud speakers floating above the track. Immediately afterwards, a high tempo techno thump burst out loud, filling all players with an irresistible need for speed.

Although you were playing in vacuum conditions, visual and sound effects were added to the dream world, and these worked to the amazement of the spectators that watched the race behind the panoramic window of the Race Hall. The floating circuit had the shape of a giant 8 split at the middle into two symmetrical circular platforms separated by one hundred meters of empty space. The curves of the platforms formed an inclined half-pipe which straightened into four flat ramps that ended in two turbopads at the center of the 8. The track had earned its title due to this intersection, for the turbopads boosted drifters to a treacherous flight that crossed trajectory with drifters coming from the perpendicular ramp. A simple miscalculation between two or more racers as they approached the turbopads could result in a collision that would instantly turn them into a dazzling shower of particles. These collisions led to the primary strategy for victory: Elimination, where a player would place their drifter alongside an opponent's and shove them into a collision course with a drifter coming on the perpendicular ramp. It was a vicious strategy, but in drifter races it had become a source for excitement and spectacle, and ultimately, it came to define the purpose of the entire game.
As a result, by dropping down to sixth, Haji intended to form and lead the second group of drifters and ensure your safety by staying in front of the line and forcing the drifters behind to jump after you.

The first five laps were completed without significant events, even though some failed ring-slaps activated the warning for Minor Collision on your HuD. Haji held the leadership of the rear line with ease: he sped along the half-pipes with a calm steadiness and foiled every one of Deadrun's attempts to place himself alongside him. Gradually, the positions were becoming consolidated, forming the two expected groups of drifters. Ten laps into the race, the distance between the two groups became far enough to allow eliminations.
In the front group, Zigvirat was maintaining the first position with unmatched skill, and he meant for everyone to hear his tireless taunts through the general chat, most of them aimed at Rist, who was desperately trying to overtake him.
You ignored his provocations, as you were entirely focused on preventing Dromuzit's relentless attempts to slap your rear rudder. You knew that if he succeeded, you would be in trouble, for Dromuzit's bold configuration favored speed over stability and his plan quickly became evident: once he disabled your ring-rudders he would place himself alongside your drifter and control your approaches. But a simple plan is often a predictable one, so you devised the best way to counter it: you took advantage of your drifter's balanced configuration to maintain the right angle along the half-pipes, and using the rear view display on your HuD, you continuously blocked Dromuzit's drifter whenever he entered the stretch for the ramp.
'Turn on the collision alarm. Eliminations are about to begin,' you heard Haji's voice through the private channel.
Zigvirat was the first to control Rist's approach. On the beginning of the nineteenth lap, he turned his game against him by placing his drifter in front of Rist's and lowering his speed, forcing Rist to either match his speed or attempt an overtake. Rist was so eager to claim first place that he saw it as an opportunity, and so he accelerated to full throttle. After the tight half-pipe, the ramp came into Rist's view. He was side-by-side with Zigvirat when the approach began, but no matter how hard he pressed the pedal, he could not manage to overtake him. The reason was simple: Zigvirat had favored speed in his configuration and could easily match Rist's.
''Collision imminent!'' flashed red in Rist's HuD, foretelling his fate, but he would not let himself be intimidated by his hated opponent: if he were to be eliminated, he would make sure Zigvirat would blow up with him. So, he answered Zigvirat's taunt daringly and fell into his trap. 
The first drifters of the second g - Haji's included - furiously drifted through the space in front of them. In the last instant, side-by-side in full flight, Zigvirat - who had until then been holding back his speed - pushed into full throttle and sprang gloriously ahead of the trajectory of the remaining drifters coming from the perpendicular ramp.
'BOOM!' Dromuzit yelled in general chat, just before the space between the ramps burst in an intense flash that blinded all who were watching.
''Multiple collisions!'' warned the admin's voice through the loudspeakers.
'Alan, are you there?' Haji asked.
'I'm here!' you answered, trembling with excitement. You had rocketed through the blast with your eyes closed and landed almost out of luck on the platform ahead.
''Players eliminated: Rist, Tzivo, Brady; The ''Watch yer' Back!'' team has been eliminated!'' said the admin, followed by a wave of applause and cheers that poured out of the loudspeakers. Zigvirat and Dromuzit added their voices to the cacophony, flooding the general chat with gloat and mockery.
'Zig managed to eliminate three players in one approach!' you said with both astonishment and dread through the private channel. 'And now I'm between him and Drom. Haji you better put your strategy into motion really quick because I'm next!' 
'For now, you just have to prevent them from setting up your approach,' was his calm answer.
'That's easier said than done!' you cried.
You struggled to remain calm while tirelessly steering both handles to coordinate the ring-rudders, holding the unstable equilibrium between positioning and velocity that allowed your drifter to remain permanently in front of Dromuzit's.
During the next five laps, Deadrun and Malaq were eliminated on account of a slight miscalculation from Deeda, Malaq's teammate and the only female player in the competition. She had accidentally blinded him just before the turbopad by crossing her drifter's exhaust in front of him. Malaq had only an instant to yell at her before turning into a spectacular shower of particles. She apologized through the general chat, even though her teammate's avatar was reduced to dust.
'I couldn't have done it better, Deeda,' mocked Zigvirat who had watched the approach by looking straight upwards in one of the inclined half-pipes.
Only half the players remained at the start of the final laps. You were still following Haji's request and trying your best to prevent Dromuzit's attempts to control your approach, but you were gradually becoming outplayed by both your opponents, who coordinated their drifters to encroach on you from both ends.
On the second row, Haji kept Deeda safely under control.
'You are doing well,' he spoke to you in a supportive manner. 'We are nearing our move.'
'It's about time you told me your plan! I'm starting to get tired!' you said.
'And they are becoming overconfident,' he remarked. 'Only two laps remain before the finish. They will try everything to eliminate you before the end, and when they do, I want you to let them.'
'That's your plan?!' you cried. 'Hold out until the final lap only to let them eliminate me before the finish line? I might as well give up now!'
'Stay calm, you are not going to be eliminated,' Haji reassured. 'I just want them to think they have you, right to the last moment, just before the last jump. But when I give you the signal, you activate the reverse thrusters.'
