Following the drone down one of the corridors, Von Howitt and the girl stopped near a sealed access door. Above it was a screen indicating ''Observations Room Nr. 13''. The Specialist dismissed the drone and - once he was sure it was out of sight - led the girl into the room. 
Sitting in front of a long metallic desk, burdened with several devices of different shapes and purposes, was a young Specialist stooping over a small transparent slide placed over a surface that irradiated light. He wore a pair of magnifying goggles, simple in shape, but highly effective for gazing at objects down to the nanometric scale, and he seemed to be tinkering with the slide, examining it closely and poking it with a pointy tweezers. It took him a while to turn his attention to Von Howitt and the girl, and when he looked at them with his magnifying goggles still on, his eyes were huge and disproportionate, slowly becoming smaller as the goggles adjusted themselves to the meter scale. When he managed to realize who had walked into the room, he flinched, his chair hovering backwards.
Von Howitt ignored him altogether. He locked the door, sat the girl in a hoverchair next to the desk, and then rushed into one of the desk drawers to rummage its contents. Nanosheets flew to the ground as his restless hands cleared the inside and pulled a metallic box which he then placed on the desk. He opened the box and removed from inside it a cylindrical object. It was smooth and utterly dark, and as he looked at it, it contracted and collapsed itself into a pair of pliers. Von Howitt was used to the transformation, and when he applied it to the girl's restrictive collar , the pliers' tips expanded and molded around the collar.
'This is going to hurt a little,' said Von Howitt in a tender voice.
It was only then that the bewildered young Specialist gathered the nerve to react. He stammered awkwardly, almost doubting his own words, 'Specimens are not allowed in Observation Rooms! You, you must not remove the collar!'
He made a sneaky attempt to grab his neurolink which was foolishly resting on the desk, but when his hand was upon it, Von Howitt's gripped his skinny forearm faster than his old age could tell.
'I advise you to stay very still, and be very quiet, Specialist Helmholtz,' said Von Howitt, giving him a menacing smile.
The young Specialist froze in shock when he heard the warning, his wide-open eyes growing to three times their size when Von Howitt loomed over his goggles. He nodded hastily, backed his hoverchair to a corner and sank in it.
Von Howitt quickly turned his attention to the girl. She was staring at him attentively.
'I won't harm him. He will be all right.' then he added, glancing back at the young Specialist, 'If he heeds my advice.'
He squeezed the trigger on the pliers and the collar broke loose from around her neck without the girl letting out so much as a moan. After throwing the collar to the ground, the pliers fused into a needle that Von Howitt applied to her neck and pricked her soft skin. Soon after, a green light blinked on the apparatus' small screen. Von Howitt allowed himself a gentle smile. Then he stood up, grimacing from an old back ache, and stretched out one hand to her.
'Shall we?' he said.
She nodded and gave him one hand.
Von Howitt unlocked the door, waving his forearm over the touchscreen, and before exiting the Observations Room he picked up the neurolink on the desk and turned to the young Specialist who was still in one corner of the room, staring at them in shock.
'It is best that you wait here a few minutes before you leave to the surface. I advise you not to contact Mother in the meantime.'
He carried on in hasty footsteps, leading the girl to the magtubes at the end of the long silent corridor, flanked by dark intersections and ominously sealed doors. Von Howitt struggled to keep up the pace, always turning back to check if no one or nothing was following them as they approached the end. And it was precisely at the end of the white corridor, past its blast door, that he almost rammed into two tall pyreans when turning on the last intersection. He staggered backwards when he recognized them, cursing his ill fortune.
Blocking his last meters to the exit hall were two Acolytes. These were initiates of the Council's representatives, and ever did they wait for an opportunity to prove themselves to their Mentalists and achieve the higher status of Overseer. They both were very much alike: tall, scrawny and dull, with bright, shiny bald heads that glistened from the ceiling lamps light; and they both wore their long crimson mantles, pressed and spotless, adorned with two thin bronze stripes that fell from their frail shoulders to the floor.
They both greeted him with a short bow, ignoring the girl altogether:
'Salutations, Specialist Von Howitt,' said one with the distinctive dull voice of a Council representative. 'I am Byrne and I represent Mentalist Faust.'
'As you are aware, the Council of Mentalists is impressed with your contributions to the Project,' said the other with an identical dull voice. 'I am Bourne and I represent Mentalist Faust.'
'Mentalist Faust is particularly impressed with the progress you have made with specimen A,' added Byrne, glancing at the girl as if she were merely an object; she kept looking down as Von Howitt had instructed her. 'It is written on your last report that during all trials, she did not take action unless commanded and obeyed every command without developing an emotional response.'
'Mentalist Faust has requested that we observe the scheduled experiment,' said Bourne. 'If your findings are correct, she might prove to be stable enough for the next phase. 
Byrne was intently staring at Von Howitt, studying his reactions, reading his thoughts. Von Howitt tried his best to clear his mind until an adequate reasoning would unconsciously arise.
'We are on time, are we not?' the Acolyte asked, intrigued by the long pause.
 Von Howitt cast a sudden cordial smile at Byrne, 'Certainly, Acolytes. Please follow me to the Observations Room.'
He led them across the exit hall, walking past the stairwell access door and the magtubes without so much as thinking about them. He then crossed under another bulky blast door back into another main corridor and soon after, he stopped at the entrance to Test Chamber number one, which was adjacent to the corresponding Observations Room. After authenticating his clearance on the touchscreen, the door opened to a small Sterilization Chamber. It had two mirrored windows on each side and was filled with showerheads on the ceiling. Opposite the entrance, was the airtight door that led to the chamber.
Raising one hand, Von Howitt invited them in.
The two Acolytes gazed into the tight Sterilization chamber and then cast a dubious gaze at Von Howitt.
'What is the purpose of entering the Test Chamber?' Bourne asked, while Byrne stared intently at Von Howitt.
'I find that observing specimens closely is far more instructive than behind a reinforced wall,' Von Howitt promptly answered, preventing his mind from thinking anything else. 'It is quite safe. And as I have mentioned on my report, she does not take action unless commanded.'
Bourne turned his head and looked at Byrne. Byrne looked back at him and then both turned their heads towards Von Howitt.
An eerie silence followed...
'Very well,' they both agreed.
Von Howitt stretched out his hand again and invited them to enter first, intently thinking about their higher status.
'I grant you entrance,' he said, his head bowing low.
Byrne nodded and entered with his head proudly raised. Bourne was next, but for a reason he never understood, he glanced at the girl just as he was stepping inside and realized that she was not wearing a restrictive collar. He stopped, halfway in halfway out, and stared inexpressively at Von Howitt. He then asked, and his tone was more demanding, seeming that an irrefutable command was being given:
'You will tell us Specialist Von Howitt, why this specimen is not wearing a restrictive collar.'
Von Howitt gazed at them both, silently, struggling to disobey the command. When he could resist no more, he answered firmly, 'Because I removed it.'
He had barely spoken when with all the strength he could muster he pushed Bourne into the chamber with such force that he crashed against Byrne and they both fell on the metallic floor with sound oompfs!
He quickly pressed the ''Emergency Close'' icon on the touchscreen and the door sealed itself in a split-second.
He had trapped them inside the Sterilization Chamber, for it had no touchscreen from the inside, but no door would keep them trapped for long, he knew. So, he grabbed the girl's hand, ran down the corridor and crossed under the opened blast door as fast as his age allowed, rushing into the exit hall towards the magtubes.
When he was just about to step into the bottomless shaft, the cylindrical door sealed in his face. Von Howitt turned around in dismay, only to see the blast doors hastily shut at the same time. In the blink of an eye the bright white exit hall eclipsed into a foreboding darkness. Red lights flashed from emergency lamps that were lowered from the ceiling, tinting the sealed hall in the warm color of blood.
Then, a slow alarm erupted. Its notes spread through the hall, resonated on its walls, and reached Von Howitt's ears, echoing in desperation.
With a jolt he spun around and repeatedly passed his Unit over the magtube touchscreen. ''Security breach on level minus ten: Containment procedures engaged.'' sounded Mother's stark warning throughout the condemned hall. Then he quickly ran to the adjacent door that led to the stairwell and introduced the Emergency Override code on the touchscreen. At his first attempt, the blue control panel turned red, flashing with the words ''Access denied: Lockdown engaged.''
He bashed the door in frustration. One meager centimeter of impermium was all that stood between them and their slow demise, but it was more than enough, he knew.
'There is nothing I can do,' he said gloomily. At a loss to think or act, he turned to the girl and wrapped his inconsolable arms around her.
'I am sorry my dear, I cannot get us out,' he said despondently. 'I am afraid we will be trapped here for a long, long time.'
The girl's only response was an unconcerned blue-eyed stare.
Von Howitt surrendered himself to a quiet lament, ceaselessly disturbed by the cadence of the alarm. And it was to that fateful sound, and immersed in despair, that he wished the door would open.
An impetuous force smashed against the solid impermium with a loud clank that overlapped the sound of the alarm. 
With a fright, Von Howitt raised his head and looked at the door. It seemed to have resisted whatever hit it. He calmly backed off, grabbing the girl's hand.
An even louder clamor bellowed through the hall when another force hammered the unyielding door, which resisted once again before his intimidated stare. He dreaded for whoever was trying to get in, since he knew whoever it was, they were most likely coming for them. Without any warning, the door started to open on one side, cracking, shrieking, buckling, as its brakes and binders attempted to keep it sealed. When it stopped, the door had yielded to the length of a narrow slit just wide enough for a pyrean to squeeze through.
Von Howitt looked through the gap. On the stairwell at the other side, a still, dark quietness welcomed them in. He stared at the girl and saw a dim glow fading from her blue eyes.
'Was that you?' he asked, his voice filled with wonder.
The girl gently nodded, keeping her inexpressive stare.
Von Howitt's face lit with an old wrinkly smile. 'You never cease to amaze me.' Grateful, he kissed her forehead and spoke, 'Let us leave, quickly!'
Once he crossed the slit, he led the girl up the stairwell, never looking back. And as he fled from what could have been his tomb he heard the door behind hastily seal itself again. Of the fate of the two Acolytes and the young Specialist, nothing was ever said, and they wound remain in that tomb, forevermore.

...he could have commanded her to open the door...
He could have, but he would not dare, for he had made a vow to never control her again. The thought of assuming control of her was too abominable for him, even if to those he was trying to escape from she was the perfect instrument of creation, and destruction...

