***

A great double-door bathed in gold was swung open into an ample round chamber. The strong radiance coming from outside revealed at the entrance a tall pyrean bearing a mantle with two gleaming silver stripes on each shoulder. The face was hidden in darkness as the figure bowed his bald head.
'An incident is in progress in the Project facility. Specialist Von Howitt is attempting to escape with specimen A,' said a male voice said in a monotonous tone.
'I am aware,' said a calm voice coming from inside. 'Measures are being taken. You may leave.'
'By your will,' said the pyrean before leaving.
As slowly and silently as they had opened, the doors were closed, rendering the chamber to a silent gloom.
'As it was meant to be,' the voice muttered.
It was coming from a figure looming above an ample semicircle desk that stood in front of a round window; beyond it was the darkened skyline of Darm. He was at the highest levels of Netcore, a privilege granted only to those who were part of the Council of Mentalists. His long crimson mantle spanned from a crimson carpet up to a wide tall collar that covered his nape. On his shoulders were two golden stripes that stretched down to his feet. He had short gray hair, apart from the top of his head which was bald and had a pale complexion. He was a Mentalist, one of the seven that formed the Council of Mentalists, governors of Darm. 
'Wollen, meet me at the entrance. Boros will come as well,' he commanded. His voice was smooth and sharp, seeming untainted by age or sickness. Whoever listened to it felt it as compelling as the entrancing murmur of a hypnotist; it stripped all the surroundings and ensnared the listener's undivided attention.
Floating above the desk, was the holoprojection of a pyrean with a maimed face. He was not something that had ever been seen by a darmian, one whose existence had not yet been terminated, that is. He was a cybernetic organism, a blend of life and machinery. Half of his deformed face was covered with a metallic plate and a dark monocle sprouted from his decayed flesh in the place of a left eye. Its reddish lips were chapped, covering pointy and rotten teeth. His voice was the opposite of that of the Mentalist's.
'We will meet you there, Master,' he said, and his voice was vicious and unnatural, as if all the foulness in the world had corrupted him.
The connection was severed, and his heinous face disappeared. 
In one swift movement, the crimson figure turned to leave the chamber. 'So predictable,' he said before leaving his quarters.

...who is this Mentalist...
He is Vittas, and he is responsible for all the harm that befell upon you during your time in Darm. But the harm he would soon inflict would be upon the unsuspecting Specialist escorting the specimen to freedom.

***

'We are almost there,' said Von Howitt to the girl as he panted up the stairwell. A restless screech of a locking mechanism came to his ears like a chime of hope as he climbed the last flight of stairs.
He and the girl had reached the minus one level of the Project Facility, where its access door had been craftily blocked with a metallic beam that had been pre-emptively placed on the frame to prevent the sliding-door from closing. They entered the chamber and the Specialist removed the beam, allowing the door to shut itself.
After crossing the access hall where the magtube entrance stood, they entered a dark broad chamber and quickly became surrounded by a loud cacophony of machinery at work. They were in one of the maintenance chambers of the facility and it was filled with an assortment of rumbling pumps, droning hydrogen engines, water tanks and steaming tubes that erupted from the machinery, climbed the walls, and pierced through the ceiling and flooring. Von Howitt navigated his way across the machinery until he and the girl arrived at the other end of the chamber, where a decommissioned service entrance four meters wide and two meters tall connected directly to the exterior. The impermium door was firmly sealed, its touchscreen deactivated, and by the look of its sturdy constitution, it would not seem possible to open it with mere strength.
He led the girl towards the coolant pump closest to the entrance, which was tirelessly working to pump liquid Helium to every laboratory in the facility. Stopping before its interface, he turned to the girl, 'My dear, you will wait here. When I ask you to open the coolant drain valve you will press the override icon on this touchscreen and then you will wait for my command to close it. Do you accept my request?' he asked the girl and smiled kindly.
She nodded innocently.
Von Howitt grabbed a pair of gloves from a tool booth next to the entrance, disappeared into a gap behind the ice crusted pump and the wall, and came back holding the metallic edge of a long hose that was attached to the coolant pump. He then dragged the weighty hose towards the service entrance, stopping ten feet away from it.
'Open the valve,' he shouted above the ruckus, pointing the hose to the service entrance and keeping himself at a safe distance.
The girl nodded.
When she pressed the icon, a warning flashed through the pump's small touchscreen: ''Danger: Liquid Helium drain valve activated.''
The girl pressed the override sensor below the status display, and after a rumbling sound, a torrent of ice came coursing from the pump's drainpipe and through the outer layer of the hose, condensing the air in clouds of vapor as it headed towards the nozzle held by Von Howitt. The liquid burst haphazardly against the door and the vapor produced from the thermal shock enveloped the room in a dense mist that devoured the entire floor and quickly rose up to his knees. Gushing from the nozzle and splattering upon the door, it froze the resilient impermium and once it started to spread dangerously close to his feet, Von Howitt asked the girl to close the drain valve. 
The drainage slowly came to a halt. When the mist subsided, the indestructible door was but a frozen block of metal. 
