The Gathering lingered on into the evening to the discrete sound of chattering and giggling. Darmians did not know how to enjoy themselves, and to them the idea of fun was as close to their mind as Mithras was to Artica. There were no raised voices or boisterous behaviors, for everyone followed the Directives for proper conduct, maintaining their poise and constraining their discussions to the latest indoctrinations and one or another update on the cure that Mother had recently made available to inquiry, always under the patient scrutiny of the twenty Acolytes standing like statues around the permaglass wall and looking inwards.
Once all the finalists had sated their thirst and hunger, Cathy, the appointed hostess of the Gathering, gave continuity to the main event of the evening, the individual presentations, which had begun soon after Lunch Hour and were paused during Dinner Time. To that purpose, the one thousand finalists sat on small puffs, filling the wide hall with a large audience that turned to the vast darkness on the other side of the permaglass wall. Between them and the transparent wall, the floor itself rose to the height of a stage large enough to bear the length of the largest animal coating, which was not yours by chance, but Leonard's bulky Elephas maximus. You sat in the row before the stage, between Cathy and Haji, which sat next to Jack and Sophie correspondingly. It was with great joy that you watched each apprentice present their animals, and as the evening progressed, so too would you and your friends present theirs.
Cathy climbed to the stage, turned to face the countless staring eyes and recited with her happy, sweet voice, 'Despite belonging to the domain of terrestrial animals, the Lepus arcticus inhabited cold snowy regions much like the ones we have today in the boreal areas of Artica. They were herbivorous and likely fed on sparse vegetation growing in these regions. They used facial pockets to store food that they gathered while they hopped back to their burrows under the snow. The most probable cause of extinction was the lowering of their habitat's temperatures to levels far below sustainable conditions to the vegetation on which they fed. They were small and cute and very friendly, and that is why I chose them,' she said and bowed.
She stepped down the stage, receiving the second loudest ovation of the evening, in part due to being the hostess, but also for the pleasing way her short white fur contrasted with her red curly hair and glossy red lips.
'Red looks good on you,' Jack commented discretely after she sat next to him.
Cathy glanced at Marlene, who was two rows behind them, chatting with Heidi in her Petauristini and Julia - a mutual friend from another class - in a Sciurus carolinensis. 
'It looks good on Marlene too,' she retorted, giving him a cold smile.
Jack was hesitant at first, but then added with confidence, 'Good as she may look, it is the attire that makes her beautiful, while you are beautiful for yourself.'
Cathy was surprised by his courteous compliment. It was so unlike him to compliment her in such a way, that, at first, she did not know what to say and merely stared at him in surprise. Jack opened his mouth as if to continue, but she interrupted him, 'You have my gratitude, Jacky,' she said in a caring voice, 'I earnestly hope you find the right companion today.'
When Cathy looked away, Jack bit his lower lip and turned his frustrated face to Sophie as she climbed to the podium and began her presentation:
'The animal known as Acinonyx jubatus was one of the terrestrial animals that are believed to have inhabited the region of what is today known as the Barren Tundra. It is believed that this tundra was once rich with a large variety of vegetation and great animal herds, giving rise to extensive prairies which were a common sight during the Age of the Antiga Pyre. Examination of sub-fossils suggests that the Acinonyx jubatus hunted other animals for food and relied on sheer speed and not physical strength to overcome their prey. Researchers are yet to find any other animal with such graceful and sleek bone structure, which lead them to believe that they were the fastest animals to have ever coexisted with the antigans. The prime factor to their extinction is attributed to the Open Hunting during the Age of Obscurity, a time when our ancestors carelessly hunted every animal for food and pelts. I chose it because it was a graceful and proud animal,' she let out a saddened smile and bowed before stepping down from the podium.
Haji remembered the moment when Sophie said, ''It will be a surprise''. In truth, it had been such a pleasant surprise to see that they had had a similar taste in choosing their animal, that he reasoned they would have a productive existence together. After congratulating her and whispering into her ear that her presentation was outstanding, he rose to the podium and began in a clear assured voice, his eyes fixed on her smiling stare:
'The Lynx pardinus bore a close resemblance to the previously presented animal, the only significant difference being that they were smaller in scale. Their remains were found on an isolated peninsula Southeast of the East Continent which was known as Iberia. Detailed analysis to sub-fossils stored in the Historic Records, reveal specific traits such as heightened night vision and improved hearing, which led Specialists to believe they were mostly a nocturnal species that fed on other animals. It is not known for certain the primary reason for their extinction but studies of remains of ingested animals led us to believe that an epidemic spread through their habitat, and as a result the Lynx Pardinus inevitably succumbed, leaving behind only traces of their existence. I too chose them because they were graceful and proud,' he said and bowed and climbed down from the stage.
When Haji sat next to Sophie, she spoke to him in a mellifluous voice, 'You were even more outstanding, my favorite darmian.'
The moment for the most highly acclaimed animal of the evening to climb on the podium soon followed. Jack rose above the furry audience and landed on the podium with one swift jump. His long, tufted tail whooshed through the air as he spun round to face the crowd, and his golden mane came swooping down with a courteous low bow. Right from the start his entrance had upstaged all other presentations, and he received an eager applause from the audience. Marlene, Heidi and her other rodent friend chirred flirtatiously. Jack winked at them, and raised his arms, casting his fingers as retractable claws towards them and roared. The cheering rose even louder, and the applause resounded though the hall. Jack waved off the applause and when the noise slowly subsided to an absolute silence, he began his presentation with an overly expressive quirkiness which only he was capable of:
'The Panthera Leo was the fiercest animal to have ever existed upon the lands of the Antiga Pyre and without doubt resided on the top of the animal food chain. In fact, he was so menacing, so menacing, that his deafening roar would compel any other animal to bow before him in terrified reverence,' he combed his mane with a quick gesture, raising his head to the ceiling in a display of supremacy; two female animals from the second row giggled to each other which inflated his ego to an even higher level. 'For countless years he ruled as the king of animals, an unmatched predator save for inferior animals who took advantage of his distraction to pilfer his half-eaten preys. Yet despite being terrifying, he was also honorable and loyal. In fact, he was so loyal, so loyal, that his role in the pack was to ensure the protection of the females and his descendants by overseeing his vast territory. He would mark it with pheromones to prevent any rival from claiming his companions, and trust me when I say, that territorial disputes between these animals, these magnificent and terrifying animals, were the most spectacular displays of ferocity ever seen in Artica!' he then continued, changing his registry to a more flirtatious tone. 'And they were a gallant animal as well, so gallant, that the role of the females was to ensure they were sated with food and pleasure, and when---'
'How did they choose their companions?' Julia, who was sitting next to Marlene asked loudly.
Jack grinned at her and answered impatiently, 'I was just getting to that,' he combed his mane and continued. 'As I was saying, he was so gallant, so gallant, that when he courted a female, they would have no other desire but to surrender to his biddings and forever become his loyal companion. In fact, it was because he was so gallant, so gallant, that the Panthera leo succeeded in conquering many females, which he then made sure to protect fervently.'
Interrupting his performance abruptly, he spoke out of character and was back to being the casual Jack. 
'In fact, if you think about it, it is makes complete sense, and I believe this behavior should be cultivated in Darm. I mean, we should be allowed to have as many companions as we desire,' he said, and when he realized all the female apprentices were staring at him with incredulity, he quickly tried to explain. 'I mean there are so many of you! Why spend our entire existence with just one when we could have so many?' he asked impulsively, and then started feeling embarrassed, terribly embarrassed, and hastily drew an innocent smile which even between his brown and white makeup had all the appearance of being characteristically Jackyish.
The statement had divided reactions among the audience: the male animals laughed while the females frowned. Marlene, Heidi and Julia giggled together; Cathy and Sophie shook their heads in disbelief, while you and Haji laughed behind your hands. Despite the indignation, many found it to be a reasonable dilemma, and that same thought had crossed you and everyone else's mind, even if it had never been so openly admitted, or suggested.
'He is right!' spoke a young male voice amongst the crowd. 'We should be able to have as many companions as we want!'
'The only thing you will have is an empty residence!' added one annoyed female voice.
Many girls nodded and agreed, and a sudden debate broke out as male and female finalists turned on each other to defend their points of view.
Feeling guilty for having started the discussion, Jack raised his voice and spoke solemnly, drawing back the attention of everyone:
'They were fierce animals, capable of instilling the most profound admiration in any of us, but like all other animals they were lost forever during the Age of Obscurity. There is evidence that suggest that some managed to survive for some centuries after the collapse of antigan civilization, but with the Open Hunt they were hunted to extinction. They are gone, now, forever.'
Nothing could have silenced that hall any better than those words. The crowd had stopped arguing to stare at him in silence. He stood quietly atop the podium and did not look so proud now. Sorrow was filling his eyes and his mane had lost all splendor. Discussions about ideal companions now seemed petty to them, and any outcome they could possibly face during their existence was belittled in comparison to what had happened to all the animals that existed before their time. You felt saddened to learn of their undeserved fate. There had been an unimaginable variety of life on Artica, innumerable and magnificent animals that had prospered for ages far before the rise of the Pyre, sharing in balance the same land and sea and air. They had endured all the hardships forced upon them and still managed to thrive and bring endless beauty to the world. But, in the end, they were powerless to outlive the destruction brought down upon them by a single animal, a single creature which in its struggle for survival had carelessly neglected all life. The finalists looked at each other with newfound respect for the animals that each represented, and as they stared into each other's furry faces, a single realization came to their minds. What an irreversible loss the world has suffered with their passing.
...they are honored in death when they should have been cared for in life...
The silence was slowly lifted into an intense crescendo of applauses and effusive cheering that ended in a choir screaming, ''Jacky! Jacky! Jacky!''. Jack raised his claws proudly and unleashed his wide smile, bowing countless times before stepping down from the stage. As he sat down on his puff, you spoke to him, 'Congratulations Jacky. I am sure that that was the best presentation Darm has ever seen. How did you know so much about the Panthera leo?'
Jack leaned over Cathy's legs and answered, 'I studied. You shouldn't underestimate my desire to impress,' he said and grinned.
Jack's presentation had thrown the finalists into a rowdy state, and their loud cheering was as big of an affront to the Order imposed in Darm as they could possibly conceive. And as if that Order remained ever vigilant, the Acolytes surrounded the multitude of colorful and furry apprentices and commanded them quite severely to remain calm and silent, placing them under penalty of bringing the Gathering to an early ending if they failed to comply. When the finalists calmed down and returned to a dull soberness, the Acolytes returned to their places and stood with their backs against the walls, facing the crowd, ever watching and listening.
