Ninth memory - Of young and old ancestors

[...] Apart from the Panoramic Transports there shall be three other transportation devices in the metropolis. To avoid traffic overload at surface level, every cargo that requires transportation shall be sent through the Underground Translocation Network. The principles for teleportation using quantum entanglement and quantum computing have long been discovered, yet we are still unable to apply them to any sentient organism without terminating its existence. Given that no organic life shall travel through it, this network will be equipped with Matter Translocation Devices which will act in principle as teleporters, disintegrating non-organic objects and transporting their particles through underground conduits to the Materialization Chambers located in every building on Darm, which will rematerialize them into their original form. The second and third transportation devices shall be the glider and the hoverboard. These shall be personal hovering transports, the gliders granted to citizens, the hoverboards granted to apprentices, and they shall be used at their own discretion, given that they confine their travels to the paths built for that purpose and not breach the Directives regarding proper use of transportation devices.

An excerpt from Annex #23: Cargo and personal transportation devices;
Division of Urban Planning under the authority of Mentalist Torval;


The carefully measured dosage of sleep antagonists released into your bloodstream woke you up and brought you almost immediately to a mild alertness. You slowly opened your eyes, lazily stretched out your arms and raised yourself to a sitting position. 
The shading effect of the window was lowered to ten percent, allowing the first rays of Mithras to seep into your room and bathe you with its soft warm light. 
Out of nothing, the small avatar of Evander popped before your nose.
'Good morning, Master!' said a loud cheerful voice. 'Ready for yet another brilliant day of indoctrination, study and productivity?'
'Not really,' you muttered drowsily while you scraped sticky secretions off your eyes.
You looked down to your left and saw Hampy sitting at your side on the foamy mattress, looking up at you with as big of a cheerful expression as was possible for an automated robot. You patted his head and yawned.
'Come, now!' Evander cheered. 'The weather is sublime, and the forecast is an entire day of clear blue sky. As clear and blue as clear and blue can be, If I might add!'
When you realized what day it was, you sprang lively to your feet. 
'You're right!' you said.
Evander orbited around you at a dizzying speed. 'That's the attitude!'
You walked up to the wardrobe imbued on the wall and opened it, removing a pair of pants and a jacket from two separate drawers, and hastily put them on top of your exoderm. As you rushed, you dropped the jacket from the previous day on the floor. Hampy had stored it aside for cleaning and he yelped in anguish when he saw it on the carpet.
'My apologies,' you said courteously and picked up the jacket.
After clasping the magnets that held your uniform firmly pressed against your body, you said before leaving the room, 'Take care of each other.'
'Have a nice day, Master,' they both answered in unison.
As you descended the staircase to the entrance hall, you issued your Unit to establish a thought connection with Haji. Immediately after receiving the confirmation, you heard Haji's voice in your mind, 'We are almost at the sixth platform.'
'I am on my way,' you conveyed the thought.
'You should make haste or else you will arrive late at the indoctrination,' Haji answered.
'I'll catch up with you soon,' you conveyed the thought. 
You were just about to exit the residence when you glanced to the left. There, standing forgotten against the corner next to the sealed door was you hoverboard. Your eyes kindled with excitement. 'On second thought, I have a better idea. See you at the Academy.'
Haji guessed your idea, 'You are very fortunate. Mother still does not allow me to ride mine after our last incident. Don't do anything foolish. The hoverlanes are filled with gliders today.'
You grinned mischievously. 
'I will try not to,' was the last thought you conveyed to him.

Evander's description of the weather had been accurate. Not a single cloud was in the sky, and the thick snow that had claimed most of the white sidewalks during the night was now withdrawing to the bottom of the picket fences of the residences, where long white rows of ice melted in the morning rays.
The warm humming of your hoverboard echoed off your street, as you slowly hovered between the residences. The air was fresh and clear. From time to time, small blocks of snow fell from the residences when the breeze blew harder.
Once you reached one of the streets that led to the East Boulevard, you came across a long file of citizens standing on top of their gliders, filling the hoverlane in an orderly and patient manner - too patient for your liking. Their gliders were hardly impelling them forward, rather standing motionless one decimeter above the metallic lane as they leaned over the handles extending from the glider's round base to their waists.
Moments after, as you joined the sluggish line, anxiety began to churn your stomach. 'If I stay here any longer, I will miss the indoctrination,' you muttered to yourself.
You held on to that thought as you turned left on a perpendicular street. You hovered down a quiet block of residences and when you reached its end the result was the same: yet another hoverlane filled with yet another line of gliders listing lazily to the weight of their operators.
...the cloisters...go through the cloisters...
You crouched, set the eternium coils of your hoverboard to maximum power, and hopped out of the hoverlane, crossing the marble walkway into a small alleyway that led to a cloister, the large, enclosed area within a block of residences whose purpose was to allow its residents to relax outdoors, sitting on benches or strolling around its fountain. At this point, you were relying on the eternium field generated by your hoverboard to impel you through the magnetic fields generated by the Magnetization Towers, something a standard hoverboard was not powerful enough to do, but yours and Haji's were more than capable, after the few unofficial modifications you made to their capacitors, that is. The sole drawback was that, under too much strain, they could very well blow up at your feet and rocket you to the sky. However, that was something you hoped would never happen. Fortunately, it never did.
A cunning smile was outlined on your lips once you entered the cloister and realized it was empty as you had expected. You slowed down to a halt and activated the Thought Recognition Protocol of your Unit. You closed your eyes and conveyed a thought to it, 'Chart nearest course to the Eastern entrance of the Hub. Set path between cloisters and alleyways. Display map trajectory including location of every darmian within a thirty meter radius.'
You heard Mother's voice in your mind, ''Plot established. Conveying image to occipital lobe.''
An impalpable transparent map materialized before your eyes, overlapping the surroundings. On the upper left corner of the map, a compass with the North and South Magnetization Towers as its poles signaled your position relative to the metropolis. You turned yourself to the course along the snowy cloister, pointed to the narrow alleyway fifty meters ahead and leaned forward on the hoverboard while pressing its magnetic brakes with your heels. It started buzzing furiously. If it were teeming with anticipation or about to explode you could not tell. 
You remembered your friend's warning and your smile widened to a wicked grin. 'No point on riding a hoverboard if we can't have some fun.'
Just when you were about to fall over, you lifted your heels and the hoverboard took off in a flash. The acceleration was so intense than you were brought you to your knees as you darted through the cloister, into the alleyway, flying across the street like a sudden gust of wind and entering the next alleyway. You lifted yourself with great effort and struggled to keep your balance as you buzzed across a second and a third street, leaving a trail of snow behind. Tiny specks of water flew at your facemask when you passed the water fountains at the center of the cloisters and as you entered the fourth, on the shuddering map before you a thin wall of blue dots signaling gliders was displayed on the approaching street along with separated green dots of citizens on foot. Your better judgment urged you to slow down, but you were too excited to consider the consequences of colliding with citizen, although you had the presence of mind to conclude it involved a lot of pain. You sighted the street through the narrow alley ahead just as a citizen dressed in yellow crossed it. You quickly guessed the trajectory between the blue dots, crouched on the hoverboard, toughened your muscles and clutched your jaw and fists.
'There!'
In a roaring buzz the hoverboard bolted between two gliders, blindsiding their operators and throwing them to the ground. Before they even knew what had passed through you entered the next cloister leaving behind nothing but a cloud of snow.
You panted and trembled with excitement as your Unit warned you that a dangerous rush of adrenaline had been released into your bloodstream, suggesting a dosage of sedatives to counter the effect. You disregarded the suggestion and lowered your speed to half, struggling to calm yourself down. 
'That was close,' you said while trying to catch your breath.
Nearing the entrance to the East Boulevard, you received a message from Haji notifying you that something very unusual was happening at the Hub and it was best to be cautious. As you looked at the almost static columns of gliders pouring out from the streets and into the boulevard, you concluded that you had saved a fair amount of time. So, you decided to follow Haji's advice.
