
'Alan!' Haji screamed, as he ran towards your fallen body.
He kneeled right in front of the Wollen, ignoring him altogether, and turned you upwards. You head drooped down but your lips still moved. He leaned one ear close to your mouth and heard you moaning faintly. There was still some consciousness left in you. He saw your facemask fallen on the snow, the falling snowflakes piling upon it, picked it up and attached it to your face. Then, looked up at the creature, which seemed to be immersed in calm contemplation, and spoke angrily, 'You mindless thing! Why would you harm him?'
Regaining his attention, Wollen looked at him and saw that the girl was no longer with him.
'Where is the girl?' he promptly asked with a clear commanding voice.
His voice was so powerful, that Haji was utterly compelled to answer. Instead of revealing her location, he forced himself to answer evasively, 'I do not know which girl you are talking about.'
Wollen approached his maimed face and asked menacingly, 'Where is the girl you found in the air intake field?'
Haji clenched his teeth and tried to resist the commanding voice. 'Beyond your reach,' he answered, grimacing from the effort.
'Where is she,' Wollen asked again, and his voice was becoming impatient. 'Tell me, now.'
It took Haji a painful amount of self-control to remain quiet. Ignoring the command and the pain triggered by his defiance, he focused on trying to find the best way to rescue both of you from that helpless situation. He soon determined that the best option would be to expand his mind to his Unit and alert Mother. However, a lingering thread of reasoning warned him that the creature would stop him with a vile attack.
It was precisely what Wollen did. Noticing his blank stare and realizing what he was trying to do, Wollen swung his fist at his face with a clean right hook that would have knocked him out cold and put a swift end to his attempt. Haji instinctively ducked and the clenched claw grazed his green hood, throwing it back. 
Wollen stared at him for a moment, surprised by his timely reaction; he had swung his fist so fast that Haji could not have seen it coming, yet he had managed to avoid it.
...to every action there is a reaction...
What your kind came to know as causality. Haji's understanding of this principle, combined with his will, allowed him to foresee the chain of events just before they occurred, and for the moment that followed, he continuously foresaw every jab, hook and uppercut Wollen threw at him, avoiding them altogether, either dodging, ducking or rolling over the snowy pavement. 
Yet even if Haji succeeded in avoiding every strike, he had not a second to reason what was happening. To him, he felt as if he was deeply immersed in a trance that granted him sight of the creature's movements just before it moved. The premonitions became so familiar, that he was beginning to gain the upper hand, and with the advantage he managed to gain, he had time to plan a cunning counterattack. 
Ducking a fierce hook, he kicked a tuft of loose snow from the pavement, blanketing the air between them; exploiting the dim visibility he jumped and threw both his feet at the creature, mimicking with perfect accuracy the movement he saw you perform moments before. A brute force travelled from his snow-screened feet to his legs and he knew he had struck the creature.
 He fell from the impact, the blanket of snow cushioning his fall; without wasting time he hastily expanded his consciousness to his Unit, utterly breaking his awareness. 
From the blanket of snow, on came a jab that hit his chest, knocking the air out of his lungs and hurtling him to the ground.
The snow settled. 
Wollen's scornful grin came to sight; he was standing in the same place, seeming unaffected by the double kick. 
'You only blind yourself,' he uttered.
Dumbstruck, Haji stared at the creature while trying to understand just how it had seen his move. It could not be an infra-red sensor for the cold snow would blind all heat emission.
Smiling at Haji's incredulous stare, the creature tapped his finger next to a cavity on the metallic plate that coated the left side of his skull, 'Ever heard of pressure waves?' he asked mockingly.
No sooner had he spoken than Haji realized he would not manage to stop him much longer. Coming to terms with the dire situation he was in, he knew his only solution was to run to the street and alert any sentinels passing by. But he recovered his concentration only to foresee another onslaught of jabs, hooks and kicks, and the confrontation prolonged for a few unwavering minutes without presenting any victor.
After countless near hits, when Haji had finally managed back away towards one end of the alley, the creature dashed past him with impossible speed. With his back turned against him, Haji sensed that some new unknown threat was imminent, and he immediately threw himself to the ground, just before a lance sprouted from Wollen's claw and struck the impermium wall like a hammer striking solid metal. 
Haji rolled over one shoulder and quickly got up. Only then he saw the long lance sprouting from the creature's metallic arm as it pricked the left wall of the alley. The lance slowly recoiled inside his claw as Wollen stood upright, staring at him calmly.
'Impressive,' he said. 'Let's see if you can avoid this as well.'
Wollen's face was filled with an expression of sheer anger and his pale gray eye was lit with a bloody red glow. Almost instantly, the fleshy arm grew to twice its size, his clenched hand becoming like a solid block of flesh.
The shock of what Haji was seeing broke his awareness and what could have been a prediction of a vicious blow quickly became the blow itself: the creature's bulging hand flew against his chest giving him only the time to raise his forearms to block it. 
The impact was so overwhelming that it shattered Haji's left forearm and threw him backwards. Overwhelmed with sharp pain, Haji was soon struck by a vicious barrage of jabs that lit the alley in red each time Wollen's hand struck his body. Then, one hook to the face sent Haji's facemask flying to one side and his body crashing to the ground. 
The freezing wind pierced his face as he curled up in pain, his eyelids shut, his teeth clenched in agony. His body was aching, feeling the metallic flavor of his own blood wandering around his mouth as he rolled on the floor. He heard the creature's footsteps crunching the snow as he approached.
Wollen dropped to one knee and drew his scarred face close to Haji's kind face, now flushed from the cold. He picked up the facemask with the tips of his thin metallic fingers, brought it to Haji's face and squeezed it into place in an abrupt and unkind way.
Now that his face was inside the protective layer, Haji sat on his legs and opened his eyes to see the abominable creature merely a breath away. He saw his raging expression return to a calm deformed countenance and his arm collapse back to its normal, albeit muscular size.
'Now...are you ready to tell me where you hid the specimen?' Wollen asked with his harsh voice, its warm breath fogging up Haji's facemask visor.
A thought warned Haji of how easy it would be to carve a swift right hook on the creature's fleshy left cheek. Just after he foresaw the success, he threw his fist. 
The punch did not carry much strength, for he was in great pain and exhausted, but the force was sufficient to rip though the creature's decomposed flesh and sink into its teeth, the jaw detaching itself and his head coiling to the side.
Haji rolled away and slowly rose to his feet, gaining some distance in the process.
'Not quite ready yet,' he said between exhausted breaths.
Wollen shook his head disapprovingly. He got up slowly, reattached his jaw, and spat a pair of rotten teeth into the white snow, smearing it with spatters of dark blood.
'You should not have done that,' he said in the same manner as before. 
Just as Haji stared attentively at the creature, trying to foresee its next assault, his mind became abruptly shrouded in darkness.
The last thing he saw was the blood red ember gleaming on the creature's pale gray eye, just before it vanished. 
Wollen delivered a crushing blow to his face, his feet were lifted off the ground, his body spun in midair and he fell face down on the snow.
He coughed once, his lungs drew one last meager breath, and his heart gave out.
Then, there was nothingness.
...not even after a thousand deaths would I spare you from retribution...
