'Everything has a limit,' you concluded.
'Precisely,' Haji agreed. 'It seems we have been designed to operate under specific conditions, and if any of these conditions are not met, either by us failing to meet them or due to some circumstance beyond our control, our continuity is no longer possible.'
You sighed as you watched an invulnerable group of sentinels far below on the Coastal Walkway, marching against the freezing wind. 'Our existence is frail,' you murmured.
Haji's eyes brightened as he stared at you, for your short remark was the sum of all his contemplation, 'Precisely! And that leads me to speculate that our existence depends on a chain of fortuitous events that occurred throughout billions of years. It is not just water that is poisonous, the oxygen we breathe can poison us as well. Ultimately, anything can be poisonous. The temperature of our surrounding, the concentration of gases in the atmosphere, the nutrients we consume, the radiation coming from Mithras, these and many more factors are needed to assure our existence and these and many other factors can just as easily terminate it,' he said, and as looked up to the darkened sky, he tried to envision the stars beyond the clouds, beyond the silvery lunoids of Oderon's Rings, beyond the endlessness of space; he lost himself wondering whether those conditions had been met on other planets.
You added humorously, 'Did you know that a gastian ceased to exist because he could not stop laughing? In a way, that proves your point. Even too much laughter can, in some way, be poisonous,' you said. Then, you added with sarcasm, 'I assume that's why games are forbidden in Darm.'
Haji gave you a stern look. 'That is obviously not the reason. Games, like any other form of entertainment, are not allowed in Darm because they are disruptive to the state of mind necessary to uphold darmian productivity. Any rewarding activity releases endorphins into our nervous system. These grant us with a sense of accomplishment. However, the rewards produced from entertaining activities lead to an inadequate sense of accomplishment, which lowers motivation and leads to idleness. Idleness lowers productivity. Low productivity leads to disorder; hence, entertainment leads to disorder. And that is directly against our Prime Directive.'
'You sound just like a Mentalist,' you said with discomfort.
Haji could not help but laugh. 'I appreciate your comparison. Mentalists are the most intelligent pyreans of our time. They are supposedly far more intelligent than our ancestors, which were intelligent, despite what happened to them.'
You looked away and muttered, 'Smart as they may be, I still don't agree with their rules. We should be allowed to have some fun now and then.'
'Fun is against the Prime Directive,' Haji answered and quieted himself, contemplating.
You looked down at your puffy black paw, then at Haji's long whiskers, and said with disquiet, 'If our ancestors were as intelligent as evidence suggests, why did they allow these animals to become extinct? I am sure they could have found a way to survive without having to hunt them for food.'
'Perhaps they took their existence for granted and never cared to think that they were condemning them to extinction. Or, perhaps, the Torment was too much for them to withstand, and in the long-lasting years of the Age of Obscurity, they descended into savagery and ignorance, as mentor Levine stated.'
Your eyes became as gloomy as the black dots of fur around them. 'It is regrettable. They were truly special,' you said in a melancholic voice.
'They were indeed,' Haji answered.
Sophie slid to Haji's side like a swift and silent feline and threw herself into his furry arms as he opened them out of reflex to embrace her. Cathy followed behind, carrying a cup in her hands.
'You two have been here all evening,' said Sophie, frowning at Haji.
'We are enjoying the view,' Haji explained, 'It is not every day that we are allowed inside a suite.'
'Well, you are supposed to be choosing your companion,' she said, giving him a sly smile.
He looked into her smiling eyes and answered, 'I am looking at my companion.'
The black stripes falling from Sophie's hazel eyes bent around her cheeks as she pouted her lips with delight. 'In that case, your companion requests that you come with her,' she said.
Haji smiled, 'I will do what my companion requests.'
She grabbed his left paw and pulled him away into the hall. Before leaving, she turned to you and asked, 'Alan, will you keep Cathy company?'
Cathy walked up to you, grabbing the cup with both hands. She had a nervous smile on her face and your heart skipped a beat when she stopped at your side.
You nodded to Sophie.
'Sure.'
She and Haji left, crossing the plasma field and vanishing into the green shades of the murky hall, leaving you alone with Cathy.
You leaned your back on the rail in a relaxed manner and stared into the hall.
Cathy leaned next to you, and after an uncomfortable silence, she nudged you with her shoulder. 'So, how are you enjoying the Gathering?' she asked in a kindly voice.
'Very much,' you answered instinctively. 'It's my first time inside a suite. I assume it wasn't easy to convince the Council. Or your caretakers. I guess I have to thank you for the opportunity.'
'Don't be silly. You know you don't have to thank me,' she said, smiling at you.
You smiled back. 
Another uncomfortable silence started to settle, and you steered your mind away, turning your attention to the sound of voices coming from the hall. You looked inside to see how the hunt for companionship was progressing. Amongst the three hundred apprentices that still lingered inside, there was Jack in his Panthera leo in an amused conversation with Marlene in her dazzling attire, and Julia and Heidi in their squirrely attires, who were in turn with their backs turned to Leonard in his Elephas maximus, who was in his own turn pushing his trunk aside with one gray paw and giving her a long face while holding a cup.
'Once we become citizens, we will never see most our colleagues again,' said Cathy. 'I still can't get that into my mind.'
'We can always schedule meetings at any retreat,' you said.
'We can. And we will! But wouldn't it be great if we were allowed to visit each other whenever we wanted? Or decide who we want to be neighbors with?'
'It would.'
'I'm just afraid that we will never see each other again,' she said and sighed. 'I want you to know that, if that happens, I will miss you.'
You looked at her and smiled. 'I will miss you too,' you confessed.
She glanced at you tentatively, her bright brown eyes fidgeting nervously, and spoke, 'You know, we don't have to...'
'Don't have to what?' you asked innocently, all the while sensing that you were nearing some pivotal moment.
'Miss each other...' she said and drew close to you, her fingertips grabbing yours.
When you felt her soft touch your back stretched with one swift jerk, becoming as stiff as a beam of impermium.
'We could always become companions,' she said, drawing herself close to you.
The moment had come. There was no avoiding it anymore. Even if you had dreaded it, you felt relieved to know that your friendship with Cathy had turned out the way you knew it would. The way you had hoped it would. So, you surrendered yourself to the inevitable and asked the question you had been avoiding. 'Do you...want...to be my companion?'
She locked her delighted bright brown eyes onto yours and spoke with the most seductive and enthralling voice you had ever heard, 'Yes.'
If it were out of cold or something else you could not tell, but you felt a tingling sensation run down your spine when she wrapped her arms around you. Still, instead of letting yourself yield to that intimate embrace, you started to worry that someone would see you.
'It's all right,' she whispered close to your lips, seeing your eyes peering from corner to corner. 'The Acolytes aren't paying attention to the balcony. We're all alone.'
Being so close to her was deeply unnerving. Her glossy red lips started drawing nearer and nearer and you felt her warm sweet breath upon your unshut lips. She closed her eyes and pressed her lips against yours, her tender body sinking onto yours, her paws grabbing your back. 
It was finally happening.
But you could not give in to the moment.
There was something strange about it.
For what seemed an eternity, your eyes remained open and you remained stone cold, neither accepting nor refusing her passionate kiss, as her wet lips eagerly felt yours. To that day, Cathy had been the only girl with whom you had shared some level of intimacy, and you had imagined that kissing her would be an epiphany of joy. But now that you did, now that the kiss was happening, you felt nothing other than skin pressed against wet skin and the insipid taste of her saliva. There was nothing stirring inside you. There was no epiphany.
She realized something was wrong, and when she opened her eyes and saw your inexpressive stare, she stopped.
She pulled her lips away from yours and slowly stepped back. 'Well, that was awkward,' she said, skimming one of her long white ears embarrassedly.
