 You were dazed beyond words. Still, you tried to rattle an excuse out of your mouth, 'I...I don't know what happened.'
Cathy hid her face, clasping her hands in front of her waist and looking down at them.
'I've always liked you, Alan,' she confessed with some effort.
'I've always liked you too, Cathy.'
She stared at you and asked, her voice hinting anguish, 'Then, what is wrong?'
'I don't know,' you said and hesitated, and then spewed out what you felt was right. 'I am not sure if we should be companions.'
The glimmer in her eyes extinguished, her smile sunk into sadness, and she hid her face under her long drooping ears.
Seeing her so disheartened made you feel painfully guilty. You sensed that somehow you should have enjoyed her kiss and ignored the part of you that said that something did not feel right. And now that everything felt terribly wrong, you stared to consider that the epiphany you had hoped for had been merely an illusion, a product of fantasy, a trick of the mind.
'Cathy, I'm not as...energetic...as Jack,' you said, carefully choosing an appropriate word. 'I don't try to impress every girl just for the sake of having the companion I want. In truth, I am exactly the opposite. I like you, but---'
'It's all right, Alan,' she answered in a tremulous voice, her long furry ears hanging down in disappointment.
Feeling the pain your words were causing her, your guilt turned into anguish, and you said in desperation, 'Cathy you are a great girl---'
'It is fine,' she interrupted you. Then she looked at you soberly. 'But you should not think that way of Jack. He might be immature at times, but he is better than he appears to be, better than many think him to be. If anything, you should be more like him and take a chance with those you want to be with,' she said, and turned, and left to the hall.
You stayed on the edge of the balcony, feeling alone and dejected, unable to understand why you had just turned down the only girl you liked.

***


Hiding under a shadow of the dimly lit green hall, Sophie's and Haji's tender gazes were fixed in mutual admiration.
'I don't know how much longer I can resist kissing you,' Sophie said passionately.
'Well, you must restrain yourself until we are companions,' said Haji. 'We should not breach the Directives for proper conduct.'
The realization of becoming Haji's companion was too overwhelming for Sophie. Out of impulse, she closed her eyes and gently kissed his lips. When she slowly opened them, her lips still lingered near Haji's dumbfounded lips, and she felt that she was having a pleasant dream. Immersed in trance, she allowed them to stay there a while longer.
'I don't care. I have been wanting to feel your lips for too long,' she whispered softly, her eyes partly closed, partly staring at Haji's, who was looking around to see if anyone, especially any Acolyte noticed. Fortunately, they were more concentrated in the larger group of finalists that was gathered around the food.
At that same time, Cathy stopped in an empty space inside the hall, looking lost and saddened, and her mournful look caught Haji's attention.
'Cathy is back inside,' he said. 'She looks distressed.'
Sophie saw her too.
'It doesn't look that it went well. Can you check on Alan?' she asked him gently.
Haji nodded and left.
Sophie walked up to Cathy, who gave her a saddened smile.
'How did it go?' she asked.
Cathy looked down and spoke in a sad voice, 'It didn't work out the way I expected.'
Sophie did not know what to say. She, like any other apprentice, had little experience in relationships, especially those that ended in disappointment. Therefore, she said what she considered to be a reasonable way of accepting the outcome, 'Well, now you know and got rid of that doubt. Don't think about it anymore. He was just one of many,' she smiled at her cheerfully and pointed to the groups of apprentices still in the hall.
Cathy's grief lessened when she caught her smile. 'And he will never know what he missed,' she said and forced herself to smile. 'The Gathering is nearing its end, but I can still find a suitable companion.'
'You will. I will make sure of it!' Sophie added.
Sophie grabbed her hand and led her to the merriest group of apprentices. Jack was there, flaunting his mane as he chatted with Heidi, Marlene and Julia. He could not make up his mind about who would be the best companion for him: he did not know if he would be fond of Marlene's pale skin, after she was no longer wearing her colorful attire, or if he could tolerate Heidi's constant blabbering about everything she had learned in the indoctrinations; or stand the disconcerting gaze of reverence that Julia had been throwing at him ever since he flashed her his smile. He did not care much about the Standing of his companion, or he would have no doubt about choosing Heidi, who was top of her class, and was otherwise interested in which of them had the most carnal appeal and who seemed to be more devoted to him. By the look of it, the first seemed to be Marlene, the latter seemed to be Julia. But Heidi had alluring facets as well, and at that point, if he were allowed, he would have chosen all three of them. 
When he threw back his mane, he realized Cathy was staring at him, and he immediately ignored the three girls and turned his undivided attention to her. When she gave him a sad smile, he did his best to cheer her up. She treated his silly behaviors with kindness and her heart even lightened. Somehow, losing the chance to be with you had made her see Jack as the good friend he was.
...that which disappointed her the most was not losing what could have been...but what will never come to be...

***

'It is time that I left,' you said to Haji as he stopped before you at the edge of the balcony.
'You are not going to choose a companion?' Haji asked.
You shrugged.
'I don't know which one to choose. I guess it's better let Mother decide.'
'In that case, I will go with you,' he offered without hesitation.
'You don't have to. I will be fine,' you assured in an affected manner.
Haji easily understood the ulterior motive hidden beneath your answer, 'Do you think I would let you return to your residence alone with a snowstorm approaching and two Specialists that might be afflicted by the Torment still missing?' he said.
'The Specialists are trapped inside the Hub and the snowstorm will only hit Darm later in the night,' you objected with a seemingly unbeatable logic. 'Besides, it is better that I go alone than Sophie.'
'Sophie is staying with Cathy tonight,' Haji retorted. 'She already has Mother's permission. And I do not trust you to be safe if you are to go alone, even if the Council claims that the Specialists are trapped inside the Hub.'
For a moment you thought that he was worried about your safety. You admired his selflessness, seeing as he was willing to risk his own safety to ensure yours.
'I am impressed,' you stated. 'I did not think you doubted the Council's report.'
He gave you a sly smile. 'It is not mistrust in the Mentalists that drives me to go with you. It is mistrust in your ability to stop yourself from doing something foolish, such as trying to sneak inside the Hub alone.'
You could not deny it. While you were outside alone, pondering about your future, your thoughts had turned to thinking of a way to get inside the Hub, for your mind was set on seeing the Specialists with your own eyes and finding out if the Torment was truly real.
You sighed and abandoned your farce, knowing he had bested you in yet another game of logic, 'You know me too well. All right, let's leave to our residences. But know that I am not pleased about you stopping me.'
He grinned at you.
'I never said I would stop you.'
