
A chilling wind blew on your face as your consciousness sunk into an ever-darker abyss. In its last flicker, you felt a remote and repetitive clanking of metal striking metal and the waning murmur of a heart. You sensed it skip a beat, and then pulsate hesitantly. It thumped once more, faintly, and then again, strong and lively, as one announcing the deathly silence that followed...
Prelude to Ascension

A single resounding boom echoed in a darkened void. In the still silence that followed, the boom reemerged, turning into a slow persistent thumping, whose vibrant waves began to stir the void. Beleaguered by the unrelenting clamor, an entity began its sluggish awakening, slowly becoming aware of the resonance that threatened to destroy the dark foundations where it had slept for an eternity. The thumping grew louder, and the walls of the void began to crack, and from the gaps that began to form, sprouted slender beams of light that bathed the entity with an indistinct sense of warmth. And as the cracks grew larger, the pitch-black shards that broke free from the walls began to fall into the infinite void, like the last drops of rain in an everlasting night. Drop by drop they fell, as the unremitting clamor shattered the lingering foundations, and when the very last shard was felled by the very last clamor, which was clearer, stronger, more vibrant than any other, a blast of light vanquished the darkness and bathed the entity in pure white. And where once was darkness, now there was light. It was then that the entity became aware of herself. Her senses awoke, and she felt the warm embrace of the light surrounding her and heard for the first time the distant singing that echoed in the infinite white. Like voices from a choir bound together by harmony they sang, and she felt the desire to merge herself with them, and so she did. She felt their presence surround her, become her, and she rejoiced, for now she knew her eternal solitude had come to an end. Now she was a whole, a golden mist formed by a boundless host of souls that sang to her an eternal gestalt of music.



End of Part I of Ascension


