Tenth memory - The Gathering

''Love is that which gives us so many reasons to smile and at the same time too many reasons to cry.''

A passage from a recovered manuscript of the Antiga Pyre: Unknown Author;


Cathy's skyscraper was one of the nearest to the western shore of the Specialist Class Sector. After tidying up your residence, you and Haji headed off in that direction. Haji had suggested taking the Panoramic Highway, concerned that the snowstorm that had been forecasted would hit Darm sooner than anticipated, but what you had to say was best not to be heard by prying ears. So instead, after crossing the South Boulevard, you and Haji made your way down one of the long avenues, surrounded by imposing skyscrapers. Along the avenue, there were ventilation boxes that continuously spewed a warm flow of air into the streets, and hovering lamps that cast small circles of light on the white pavement. Mithras had begun setting on the horizon, slowly relinquishing the heavens to an ominous blanket of grey clouds that approached from the sea.
'It has to belong to the missing Specialists,' you said to Haji through your facemask's speaker.
'It could belong to anyone, Alan,' Haji answered. 'However, given that it is an unusual object, I would speculate that it could very well come from the Project Facility. By the look of it, it seems to be some sort of identification tag.'
'Then there's the symbol of infinity on the clasp,' you said, adding evidence to his reasoning. 'It must have a meaning of some sort.'
Haji replied with some disquiet, 'If the bracelet does belong to the missing Specialists, it is best that you deliver it to the D.S.D.. You were very fortunate that the sentinels did not find it when they scanned you, or you would be in trouble.'
Instead of feeling concerned, you mocked, 'Maybe they were so impressed by my hoverboard that they ended up overlooking it,' you said.
'That is unlikely,' Haji answered, unchanged by your attempt of humoring him. 'The most reasonable explanation is that they categorized it as a personal item.'
'Well, I am not returning it,' you retorted firmly.
'It was merely a prudent suggestion,' Haji replied and smiled, 'I did not think you would.'
Nearing Cathy's skyscraper, you shared a moment of silence.
'Did you know that the antigans had a different designation for the symbol of infinity?' he said out of impulse, for his mind had been giving continuity to the conversation.
'No, I didn't,' you answered inattentively, while you made plans to find out more about the bracelet after the Gathering.
'Well, they did. They named it lemniscate. I found the definition and its origin on an off-topic thread. It was not even in the Fundaments of Modelation segment.'
'How did you come across it?' you asked.
'By chance, when I was preparing a Fundaments of Modelation indoctrination,' Haji said innocently.
A few minutes later, you arrived at the skyscraper's anteroom, just as gentle snowflakes began leisurely descending from the gray sky. After crossing the curved permaglass door, elegantly decorated with imprinted depictions of Specialists in various activities, you removed your facemasks and took off your gloves. For a moment, you felt trapped inside the soundproof anteroom, between the falling snow and the impassable plasma barrier that blocked the access to the entry hall. You approached the touchscreen imbued next to the plasma barrier and waved your forearm near it. ''Access Granted'' flashed in green on the touchscreen and you crossed the harmless barrier for it had adjusted its frequency to match your body's frequency, allowing you and only you to traverse it.
Haji repeated the process, and soon both of you were inside a comfortably acclimatized round hall, tall and wide, and all but empty except for four columns separated at equal lengths from the center. The walls were made of pure gold , which reflected the bright light coming from a portentous crystal chandelier hanging from the golden ceiling. As was custom in all skyscrapers, you placed your boots, your gloves and your facemasks on the two small compartments that opened on the wall to the left and took two pairs of fluffy slippers from inside them.
'Comfy,' you said as you put on the slippers and felt them around your feet.
Haji smiled at you. 'They are. Even if the insulating properties of our exoderm are enough to keep us warm, they add an extra comfort to walking.'
'One more reason to become a Specialist,' you teased.
The compartments closed as you hovered your Units over its touchscreens. 
A few fluffy footsteps later, you were at the end of the lobby, facing the magtubes that would hurtle you to Cathy's suite.
'You go first,' you said with a look of aversion, as you stared inside the floorless tube.
Haji smirked at you, 'Still afraid of falling?' he teased.
'I am not afraid of falling!' you promptly grunted. 'I just don't like stepping into...nothingness.'
'You do know that the probability of falling is close to zero,' Haji explained before he himself stepped inside the tube. 'Even if there was a sudden power shortage the safety nets installed below every level would catch you.'
He had barely placed his two feet inside when he fell into the dark, wiggling his raised arms and yelling helplessly.
Blood drained from your cheeks and your eyes widened in panic. You were just about to jump in to try and rescue him when he slowly floated up, smiling at your terrified face, and then flew upwards.
'Ohhh...I will get you...' you said through clenched teeth before finally stepping in.
