Fourth memory - At the East Retreat

Even though social interaction is irrelevant to the accomplishment of the metropolis' purpose, the Pyre's social heritage demands that darmians be granted the possibility to engage in such activities. As a result, four public establishments shall be built at convenient locations and equipped with all the necessary commodities. These Retreats, as they will be named, shall be available after Labor Time, and they shall grant the darmian a place to fraternize without supervision, the sole requirement being that they follow the Directives for social interaction. Although optional, their implementation is strongly advised, for all preliminary experiments reveal an increase in productivity of twenty percent on the experimental group, as opposed to the control group, which when deprived of social interaction revealed a decline of thirteen percent in productivity and an increase in suicide rates.

An excerpt from Annex #15: Extraordinary contingencies; 
Division of Darmian Affairs under the authority of Mentalist Silas;


You and Haji arrived at the East Retreat a while into Dinner Time. It was an out-of-the-way establishment, encompassing the entirety of the base of the gigantic East Magnetization Tower. Snow had started to fall, and as you walked along the retreat's round window-wall, you saw through the shaded permaglass several pairs of citizens and apprentices sitting and chatting inside many booths. Sophie was there, inside one of the booths. Cathy and Jack were there too, sitting across the table from her. Ever since the start of apprenticeship did your feelings for them grow. Now, gazing at them from outside the window, it came to you how fond you had become of your friends. The more you thought about what they meant to you, the more the desire to rest faded.
The cuddled entrance was facing the sea. There was a luminous sign above it with the holographic words ''East Retreat'' tinting the snow with shades of green.
Entering the round antechamber, you brushed off the thin layer of snow from your green uniform. Once the temperature matched the warm twenty degrees inside the retreat, the round door blocking your path slid into the wall. 
You entered the acclimatized hall, approached the broad counter at the center and greeted Colt, its administrator. He did not pay you much attention, seeming rather immersed in his customary task: watching the weekly bulletin displayed on one of the holoscreens attached to the large central pillar while mindlessly cleaning a spotless cup with a stainless cloth.
'Salutations.' you said. 
Colt nodded. His eyes were fixed on the holoscreen.
You leaned over the counter and Haji leaned at your side and all three watched the weekly bulletin. It was being presented by a female darmian with a tidy appearance and straight brown hair pulled behind her ears. Her voice was sharp and pleasant: 
''On Vanguard lunoid station, progress with the research conducted on the immunization of single cell organisms has reached an unprecedented breakthrough. After extensive manipulation of genetically modified cells, Project Specialists succeeded in reversing the mutations caused by the retrovirus PIn-T2. Result analysis suggests that this process can be replicated, and Specialists are confident that the research is close to eradicating the retrovirus from the Pyre genome. Our Guiding Father grants us his words on the subject:''
The elder countenance of Gadim emerged on the holoscreen. His short white hair was combed back, and his hazel eyes smiled kindly. He spoke with a mellow albeit firm voice, seeming that all his years of life had done nothing to spoil his vigor, granting him unparalleled resolve instead.
''This accomplishment serves to demonstrate our commitment to achieve Darm's purpose. It acknowledges Darm as the most advanced society ever created and acknowledges the efficiency of the Darmian Directives as well. Citizens and apprentices of Darm, we are nearing the end of the suffering that has devastated the Pyre since the dawn of the Age of Obscurity. As your Guiding Father, I commend you for your vital efforts in upholding our Prime Directive: Order ensures Progress.''
His face disappeared and the speaker moved on to less important reports.
Haji looked at you, 'It appears that your caretaker has made significant progress with the research,' he said.
The statement ignited Colt's curiosity. He halted his compulsive cleaning and looked at you, his dark eyes staring at you in expectation.
'It appears indeed,' you answered, tapping the counter, letting slip an embarrassed smile, dividing your attention between the two pairs of eyes. When their silent gaze became an off-putting stare you added, 'I don't know anything! She doesn't tell me anything!'
Your answer drowned Colt's curiosity. With one swift turn of the head, he returned to his endless task of rotating the cup with one hand and scrubbing it with the other.
You did not bother to bid your leave. You and Haji stepped away from the counter and headed down the corridor along the circular rows of booths. Most of them were occupied by weary citizens, others by apprentices engaged in conversations behind transparent soundproof domes. At the southernmost end of the establishment, you found Sophie, Cathy, and Jack - they seemed to be in a cheerful mood. Once Sophie saw Haji, she found room for him to sit.
The round booth was composed of one cushioned bench coated with a red hued fabric and a circular table crammed in the middle. You sat nearest to the retreat's window while Haji and Sophie sat next to you. Cathy and Jacky remained seated at the opposite side.
Jack smiled at you and spoke in a self-satisfied tone, 'Great intervention today, Alan. Tell us what happened after we left. Did mentor Levine invite you to a private indoctrination in her residence?' he asked, a smug smile on his face.
You looked at him and smiled. You had not just won a drifter race to let your friend's taunt discomfort you, 'You know how it is. Some are born to impress; others are born to be impressed.'
Jack combed his dense blond hair with one hand, his lips casting a smile as big as his face, 'You are right on that one,' he said. 'But you are not doing that bad. And if you need some hints, you know you can count on me.'
Cathy gave him an incredulous stare, 'He was talking about you Jacky. What he meant to say is that he is the one born to impress, and you are the one impressed.'
You chuckled, while Sophie and Haji remained oblivious to the conversation - they were sharing intimate smiles and speaking quietly with one another.
'So, you want to compete then?' Jack answered, his brows furrowing defiantly above his light-blue eyes. 'I hope you realize that you are no match for my impressiveness.'
He leaned back in the seat and sprawled his arms, wrapping one around Cathy's slender shoulders - she turned her head and flared her nostrils, seeming that she had smelled something unpleasant.
'You'd lose,' you objected, widening a proud smile.
Cathy pushed Jack's arm aside and chimed in, 'Please behave. There are other citizens here.'
Jack looked at Cathy with a false look of guilt, 'We were just kidding. Alan knows it. Right?' he asked, glancing at you.
'All I know is that I'm going to order something. I'm starving,' you said, answering to the rumbling in your stomach.
'I will order as well,' Haji intervened, interrupting his conversation with Sophie.
Lying flat on the center of the table was a holoprojector displaying an interactive menu of the establishment. You identified yourself by waving your forearm over it. Using Thought Interaction, you ordered your desired food: two nutrient bars and a vitamin shake. After taking your order, the center of the table opened, and your order was lifted on top of a tray from the opening. You picked up the tray and the holoscreen slid to its place with the notice ''Have a pleasant meal.'' floating inside it.
After Haji ordered and received his meal, the thin dome-shape curtain lowered over the booth, enclosing you and your friends inside it. Then the calm and tranquilizing voice of Mother spoke, ''Please select a theme.''
'Tropical beach!' shouted Sophie above Cathy and Jack; you could not care less as you chewed on one of the nutrient bars.
''Theme selected: Tropical beach. Have a pleasant Dinner Time,'' said Mother.
'Aww...again, Sophie?!' complained Cathy, softly banging her head on the table and then pushing her curly red bangs aside as she looked at Sophie, 'Next time it is my turn!'
Sophie's auburn eyes brightened, and she nodded joyfully.
As if it had become a live painting, the dome-shaped curtain turned into a sand filled beach encircled by an endless ocean with a clear blue sky above. The sparkling waves calmly embraced the shores in relaxing comings and goings, wetting the glittering sand.
Cathy sighed, as the relaxing sound of waves washed over the booth accompanied by a calm breeze. Then, she began, 'Now that we are all here, it is time to get started. As you all know, five weeks from now we will no longer be apprentices. For that reason, I made a request to the Council of Mentalists that this year the Gathering take place in my suite, and earlier this morning my caretakers and I received the authorization from Mentalist Silas.'
Scraping the bottom of your empty cup with a straw, you gazed at Cathy with curiosity. Mentalist Silas was the Head of Darmian Affairs and would not have allowed a Gathering to take place in a private habitation under normal circumstances.
'That is great!' cheered Jack.
'Will any Council representatives be attending?' Haji asked.
'Yes,' answered Cathy. 'One of the conditions imposed by Mentalist Silas is that we are to be supervised by Overseers.'
The bubbling echo coming from your cup went silent.
'That is not so great,' said Jack, hanging his head.
'Well, it was either that or having the Gathering at the Academy as is customary,' Cathy added.
