You let out a quiet sigh and sat down again, glancing at your colleagues as they rolled up their neuropads, packed them in their utility belts and walked past you. When Haji was leaving, you caught his attention and whispered, 'Wait for me outside?'
'Certainly,' he said, bowing his head low in a display of solidarity.
When the last apprentice left and the sliding door behind you closed automatically, the room fell into an absolute silence. You remained in your seat, your head hanging low, your eyes fixed on your emptied desktop. You heard the mentor's footsteps approaching, echoing off the cold marble floor. When the echoes suddenly stopped, you raised your eyes to see her standing straight before you, her violet pants and jacket both tightly pressed against her tall scrawny body.
'Apprentice Balthazar, throughout this year you have expressed nothing more than a clear intent in confronting every mentor that attempts to correct your inappropriate behavior,' she started, and despite her apathetic stare, her voice was sharp. 'When it finally seems that you have caught interest in History doctrine, you seize the first opportunity I grant you to breach the Directives and question the validity of your indoctrinations with, to say the very least, a slanderous insinuation.'
There was nothing you could say to mend your situation, so you lowered your eyes and listened quietly.
'Not to mention your indecorous act of defiance towards a mentor,' she said, and she was deeply disappointed when she saw your indifferent glance. 'What is the cause for such indiscipline? I would very much wish to know, for then I would be able to assist you in resolving your issues without being forced to notify the Council of Mentalists.'
Her warning caught your undivided attention. You straightened your back and gave her a solemn stare.
'This was my last reprimand, apprentice Balthazar. I sincerely advise you to fulfill your obligations as an apprentice, otherwise I shall have to fulfill the most unpleasant obligation of a mentor and fail you. You know very well the Council does not invest in lost causes. Consequently, a mentor does not invest in lost causes,' she calmly tugged at the hem of her violet jacket, clasped her hands in front of her waist and returned to her dull voice. 'As a means of recovering your lucidity, do perform the supplemental tasks that I shall be sending to your neuropad. Consider them a corrective measure as an alternative to cognitive rehabilitation . Order ensures Progress, apprentice Balthazar.'
...to condemn and punish defiance...that is how order is ensured...

Outside the indoctrination room, the wide curved hallway was practically emptied. Most of the apprentices had already left and the only sound was the echo of footsteps. You walked down the south stairwell of the building and when you reached the ground floor, you headed towards the East entrance of the Academy, where Haji chatted with Sophie. When you stopped before him, a troubled look on your face, he interrupted the conversation and asked with concern:
'Is everything well?'
You looked at him and sighed. 'I think her patience is finally coming to an end.'
'I tried to caution you, but I was unsuccessful. You were deeply asleep,' he explained.
You shrugged and smiled. 'It wasn't your fault,' you said. Then you mimicked mentor Levine, speaking in a tedious voice, 'apparently, she is not quite the admirer of apprentices who fall asleep during her dissertation regarding the greatness of our illustrious Guiding Father.'
'That and your eloquently put question,' Haji added, captivated by your mockery.
The ease with which you deliberately disrespected mentor Levine was greatly bothering Sophie, as was the way Haji fell under your misguided influence. She crossed her arms tightly and furrowed her thin golden eyebrows at you, 'Alan, have you realized that with the time you waste questioning everything that is indoctrinated, you could be, the same way all other apprentices are, striving to achieve a high standing and ensuring your future as a citizen of Darm?'
You buried your amusement under a surprised face. You were aware that she disliked your acts of defiance, but it was unusual for her to scold you. As you looked at her worried eyes, you rapidly realized she was merely attempting to express her concern about the negative influence you had on Haji.
'Sophie,' you said in a sympathetic tone, 'our existence should not be limited to a standing that one can achieve by earning Credits, even less when those who grant them do so to keep us disciplined and obedient.' 
Haji whispered close to your ear, 'Does that also mean you do not mind arriving late and starting the race in last?'
Just as you heard him, the reason you had so eagerly waited for the end of the indoctrination popped into your mind.
'Shoot!' you let out the loud interjection. When you saw Sophie's dumbfounded stare, you scratched the back of your head and chuckled innocently.
 Sophie squinted at you, 'Are you two going to breach the Directives again?' she asked, her voice a blend of concern mixed with reprimand.
'Something like that,' you answered, eyes squinting with mischief.
She gave you a harsh stare. 'Some day, the Council of Mentalists will not be as lenient with you as they have been until now, Alan. And when that day comes, if I am to be interrogated by Overseers, I shall say that I have nothing to do with---with---any of you,' she said, looking at Haji as well.
'They would know that it is not true,' Haji stated. 'Mother is aware that we spend time together.'
She slapped her thighs, eyeing him with frustration, 'Haji, please be careful! We are one month away from becoming citizens. I do not want you to do anything to harm your citizenship.'
Haji looked into her amber eyes and spoke kindly:
'I would never do anything that would separate us, Sophie.'
Sophie looked at him very seriously. Slowly, her cheeks started to redden. When she realized she was unable to restrain her embarrassment any longer, she turned her eyes to your silly entertained expression. You quickly looked away in an effort to appear oblivious to their conversation, only to peek back when she was no longer looking.
Sophie looked at Haji and gave him an endearing smile, 'I appreciate your consideration,' she answered shyly, struggling to hold back her delight while her eyes glittered with joy. 'Now please be careful and take care of---him,' she said, pointing at you with displeasure.
Haji looked at her hesitantly. His remark had been by far his best attempt to reveal his interest in her, and he had eagerly waited for a reply that would allow him to safely confirm or deny that she was equally interested in him. However, her answer was not as revealing as he had expected. He bowed his head and said soberly, 'Certainly, Sophie.'
You and Haji were already stepping through the exit when Sophie remembered, 'Do not forget to show up at the East Retreat. We will be discussing the preparations for this year's Gathering.'
'I wouldn't miss it for all the Credits in Darm!' you answered loudly, drawing the attention of two apprentices exiting the Academy in a proper manner.
Sophie hid her face behind her long golden locks. 'One day, I will be summoned by the Overseers. I can feel it,' she mumbled to herself, as she retreated to the broad study hall on the outer side of the curved hallway.
