Forgive me. I shall resume. However, this subject was not as meaningless as you might consider. Within it, was an understanding to the Torment which no one except Gadim was able to fully grasp. He saw the retrovirus in its entirety, and he saw how it corrupted life, turning your kind into something that I never intended you to be.
The mentor turned to the window-wall and interacted with it, using the neurolink that rested comfortably on her right ear. The view of the Academy's inner plaza was replaced by an opaque screen of information related to the Fundaments of Existence doctrine, whose seemingly endless topics filled the wall from top to bottom. Using Thought Interaction, she accessed the topic ''PIn-S2'' and then the sub-topic ''Epidemiology''.
On the screen were displayed several images demonstrating a sequence of the infection process of the retrovirus. In one of the images, the macromolecule seemed to be in interaction with an isolated eukaryotic cell; in another was plainly visible the strand of nucleotides that Heidi had described. The images seemed to be divided in four stages and the mentor began to explain the first stage, mentioning with approval the common points that her apprentices had presented. Arriving at the second stage, she sat behind her desk and continued:
'On the second stage of incubation, we can see that the affected cells of the organism now comprise over seventy percent of the cell population, with a prevalence of approximately thirty percent on the bone tissue. In this stage, the group of signs and symptoms were still inexistent or unspecific. Consequently, it was still not possible to ascertain without clinical trial whether an organism was infected or not.'
Her soft voice was so alluring that you followed her every move and every word, from her calm gestures pointing towards the three-dimensional images, to her occasional pauses to assess whether she could continue or whether she had to explain once more.
'On entering the third stage, the incubation had successfully reached the point of irreversibility, and any attempt to eradicate the retrovirus resulted in the destruction of its host. This irreversibility is one of the two reasons why this pathogen was so effective at spreading throughout the globalized societies of the antigans. The other reason was that the host was already infectious during the incubation process, meaning that the retrovirus was free to replicate itself and spread to new hosts without any signs of infection being displayed by the carrier.'
After mentor Elias highlighted the last stage of the incubation process, the screen reproduced an animation of the retrovirus neutralizing the cell's defenses and attaching itself to a DNA strand. Its effectiveness was both admirable and disturbing.
She pointed one finger to a segment of the altered DNA, 'Once fully lodged inside the still asymptomatic host, the viral RNA strand migrated from the cells' nucleus to the cells' mitochondria, lodging itself in the DNA of this structure. The incision of the vRNA in the cell mitochondria caused a chain mutation of mitochondrial DNA, creating a pattern with a specific codon sequence known to be the Torment trigger sequence. The mitochondria's more resistant RNA molecules were unable as well to prevent this mutation due to the hypersecretion of oxygen reactive composites by the retrovirus, which neutralized any attempt to repair the damaged DNA strands. When the fourth stage was complete, the mitochondrial DNA became viral, triggering the start of an irreversible chain reaction,' said the mentor, pointing to the schematics where the viral RNA performed an alteration of the mitochondrial DNA. 'The first of our Guiding Father's accomplishments, was to discover that the transition from the incubation phase to the Torment phase followed a chain recoding of the DNA that would only commence once the mitochondria population of the host was entirely contaminated, which means that the Torment phase would wait until the incubation phase had been completed,' she said and waited for the apprentices to finish their annotations. 'There are no accurate predictions of the time span of the incubation phase, but models run by Mother suggest that this process lasted for twenty to thirty years, and we now know that this viral RNA was also able to infect the host's gametes during meiosis, meaning that any offspring would be equally infected. This was one of our Guiding Father's most important discoveries, as it allowed us to entirely understand the cause of the extinction of the Antiga Pyre. It is believed that once an offspring from an infected antigan attempted to breed with a non-infected antigan, the result would be an infertile hybrid. This means that throughout the Age of Obscurity, as all the surviving populations became infected, the Antiga Pyre withered away and eventually became extinct.'
She granted the apprentices some time to convey into their neuropads what she had said. Then, she added, answering to some keen eyes, 'This is one of the reasons why all darmians are fertilized and bred in controlled laboratory conditions and then appointed to caretakers. However, it is still a futile effort to reverse our offspring's genetic code to that of our ancestors. It may even prove impossible, since the original code was lost when the antigans became extinct.'
You raised your hand, as much out of curiosity as to grab her attention. When she nodded to you, you asked, 'Why were the antigans unable to remove the genetic flaw from their gene pool. Were they unable to use genetic programming?'
'That is a good question, apprentice Balthazar,' she answered as you welcomed her tender gaze. 'They were aware of genetic programming, but not even that was enough to stop the virus. The reason is that the retrovirus did not perform a linear mutation of the Antiga Pyre's DNA. Instead, it unevenly spread throughout their genetic code in small and very discrete codon sequences, some of them redundant, others self-reconstructive, and others seemingly normal, yet all interlinked through a process that was only discovered by the Guiding Father, after their extinction.'
'That was one smart germ!' Jack allowed himself to shout.
The class erupted in a half-suppressed laughter.
Mentor Elias calmly gazed at him, 'It was indeed, apprentice Thompson, and that is why it was successful in leading an entire species to self-extinction. You should have some respect for it, and for our ancestors.'
One by one, the apprentices quieted down, gazing at the mentor in solemn contemplation.
'My apologies, mentor Elias. I did not mean to disrespect them,' Jack spoke embarrassedly to the silent room.
'Apology accepted,' she said, throwing him a courteous smile.
After a brief pause, the mentor moved on to the next topic: ''Pathophysiology.'' 
The lights in the room waned and she continued the indoctrination on the holoprojector, letting the morning light into the room through the shaded window-wall:
'We shall now address the syndrome that the Nova Pyre has come to refer to as the Torment. These set of signs and symptoms, commonly known as manifestations, are the reason why from antigan civilization there are only buried remnants, broken artifacts, and weather-beaten ruins.'
Hovering above the holoprojector, emerged a physical representation of a male antigan, slowly rotating along a vertical axis. Its body was stubby and hairy, its skin soft and pale, its face beardy and bestial.
...they were very different from pyreans...
Evolution from Antiga Pyre to Nova Pyre produced mild to severe changes to the Pyre's constitution. Some of the changes were discrete, such as the loss of all hair in both the male and female body, apart from the head, eyebrows and eyelashes. Other were more noticeable: they became taller and slenderer, and their face uncommonly fairer and more delicate, changes that occurred because attractiveness became the sole criterion of natural selection between pyreans during the Age of Obscurity.
'The Torment can be divided into two sets of symptoms,' said mentor Elias. 'The Localized Morphological Manifestations and the Widespread Morphological Manifestations, which, as the name suggests, are either localized or widespread alterations in our body appearance. These can be temporary, or in more severe cases permanent, and are a result of the change in the genetic code responsible for our appearance.'
Mentor Elias continued to explain the Torment, using the antigan model to demonstrate different manifestations. Your astonishment grew increasingly as the model assumed various grotesque forms. On one of the Localized Manifestations, the model suffered shocking alterations to the arms; these increased in size, changing shape and radically changing their texture and color to a rugged and reddish glow.
When she moved on to the Widespread Morphological Manifestations, your astonishment turned into disbelief. On one of the first manifestations, the model grew to almost three times its size and his skin turned into a ridged shell with a brownish hue; his already brutish face became heinously deformed, the lips thick and dark, the eyes deeply burrowed into the skull as if they had been sucked in by some incomprehensible force, and his hair had extended down to its body and thickened to become a layer of menacingly sharp thorns. On one of the last manifestations the model became utterly repulsive, its skin turning into a sickening green paste, and becoming so languid it seemed to melt off its body; its limbs were reduced to large tentacles, and on its edges grew blotches and pustules, some of them erupting with a yellow slimy fluid. No apprentice was unmoved by the manifestation. Many ended up averting their eyes, and Marlene, an apprentice with a peculiarly pale skin-tone, which had become white as marble at that point, ended up throwing up her breakfast on the floor. It was after that incident that mentor Elias decided to stop the demonstrations and interrupted the indoctrination, allowing the apprentices to recover and share their thoughts, while she accompanied Marlene to the washroom.
You took the time to talk to Haji, stealing his attention from his neuropad, 'What do you think of this?' you asked feeling both curious and suspicious.
Haji gave you an upset look, 'It troubles me to know that we have the Torment inside us. Without the Personal Identification Unit, we would be vulnerable to it. Our Guiding Father might not be as great as he claims to be, but we still must thank him for what he has accomplished. He helped the Pyre reclaim its place in Artica and allowed its societies to rebuild once more.
You looked at your neuropad as the image of the manifestation rotated inside it, 'Maybe you're right...' you yielded, your suspicion turned to doubt.
...what a grand deception...

A little while after, mentor Elias returned with Marlene at her side. The apprentice was grasping her stomach, but her skin was a little less pale, which led you to assume she was feeling a little better. After dragging her feet back to her desk, she sat, quite slowly. The mentor returned to her place alongside the holoprojector and waited until the apprentices returned to their silent awareness before proceeding:
'I would like to end this indoctrination with a quick note. As you are aware, any change that occurs on a given system, however erratic it may seem, obeys a specific set of facts, or laws. It is only because of laws that we are able to predict the motion of the stars and galaxies, the weather patterns that determine Artica's climate, the cycle of our existence, and yes, even the Torment,' she said and became quiet, seeming intended to incite curiosity. After sitting behind her desk and quietly conveying some thoughts to her neuropad, she continued, 'As such, I wish you to research the set of laws related to the Torment as they are presented in Gadim's Theorem regarding Phenotype Rearrangement which shall be the theme for the upcoming indoctrination. The criteria for Credits awarded shall be based on the knowledge of the topic, clarity of the presentation and conclusions drawn from the research. The respective Credits are five, ten and fifteen.' She rose from her seat and walked towards the edge of the dais, 'Does anyone need me to clarify any subject?'
A multitude of arms were raised. 
Given the short amount of time before the signal, mentor Elias allowed only one question. To be impartial in her choice, she used her neurolink to generate a random name and then present it on the walls so that everyone could see. Leonard was the apprentice Mother chose, highlighting his name in big letters on the walls.
Leonard was not the type of apprentice that would actively participate in any discussion. Throughout the years he had developed - nearly at a mastery level - the ability to pay attention to both the indoctrinations and Heidi, an apprentice he had become irresistibly infatuated with. During any given indoctrination he would devote his eyes to the mentor, and his ears to Heidi, who was sitting next to him. When he saw his name floating on the walls, he felt his secret had been discovered, and Heidi's eyes and ears had now turned to him. He could not help but feel that he was being punished somehow, since now he had no other choice but to become the center of her attention.
He asked with a tremulous, shrill voice, 'Mentor Elias, I understood how the retrovirus managed to spread throughout the Antiga Pyre and create us. And I also understood what manifestations are. But what I did not understand - he glanced at Heidi before continuing - or at least not too well, is why the Torment has so many different manifestations.'
Mentor Elias was delighted with the apropos question. It had been the first time Leonard had participated in her indoctrinations and yet he had managed to identify the mystery behind the Torment.
'That is an excellent question apprentice Leonard. No doubt some of you are unable to understand the reason as to the enormous diversity of manifestations - some apprentices nodded their heads. - Unfortunately, the reason can only be revealed to those who succeed in becoming Project Specialists.'
Leonard's satisfaction waned into an expression of disappointment; he knew that with his credits he would never be assigned to that occupation. Conversely, a look satisfaction grew in some faces - Heidi's included - for they knew they would surely achieve Specialist Class.
'However!' mentor Elias added, pouting her lips slyly, 'one could speculate - her eyes probed the ceiling - that there could be a correlation between these manifestations and the way we experience emotions.'
Bewilderment is the most appropriate word to describe the look on the apprentice's faces, yours included. No one could understand the correlation; some found it so surprising that they raised their hands to ask for a more comprehensive explanation.
'I would be delighted to engage in further speculation,' mentor Elias continued, 'regretfully, this more confusing than explanatory conjecture will have to suffice.'
The indoctrination ended a few seconds later, leaving the room full of disappointed apprentices. One by one, they rolled up their neuropads and packed them in their utility belts, leaving the room orderly while engaged in quiet arguments. Mentor Elias remained at her desk, conveying thoughts to her neurolink. Heidi approached the desk and attempted - yet unsuccessfully - to ask for an explanation. As vain as the attempt might have been, for Leonard it was the appropriate excuse to walk up to her side and start a conversation. And so, he did, shyly.
