Eighth memory - Desperate Measures

''Several were the occasions in the past when one single individual was forced to choose between the lives of a few and the salvation of millions. When that choice fell upon me, I was forced to choose between the extinction of my kind and the end of time.''

An excerpt rescued from the final diary of Gadim: Contemplations regarding The End;


'Von Howitt,' said a sharp voice.
'Voice recognition successful. Have a pleasant and productive evening, Specialist Von Howitt,' said the soft voice of Mother.
The reinforced sliding-door that led to the containment wing opened with one quick jerk, releasing into the air the distinct odor of ether. Von Howitt took one deep breath and then calmly entered the dark and silenced corridor with a grim, attentive stare.
He heard the door close behind him as he walked along the ample wing flanked with lettered sealed doors on both walls. The ceiling and floor lit around him as he progressed along the corridor and dimmed behind him, lighting his steps in a smooth succession of spotlights until he stopped at the sealed door with the letter ''A''.
The door opened as soon as his forearm hovered above the touchscreen. Inside the short and narrow white room, was a girl lying gently on a smooth metal slab that extended from the wall. Von Howitt approached the slab, kneeled beside it, and cast a tender gaze over the girl's resting face. 
'Time to wake up, my dear,' he said with a gentle smile.
He was an aged Specialist with wrinkly face and gray hair, old enough for Honorable Retirement, whereas she was immaculate and young. Her short hair was as white as snow and her face as cool as a wintry morning; her chin was angular, her lips soft, her nose upright, and long snow-white eyebrows surmounted her closed eyes. She slowly opened them and looked at him attentively, seeming that she had been awake for a long time. Their color was of pure blue and they glowed like sapphires sunk in an unfathomable depth.
...I know these eyes...
'Let us go for a walk.' the Specialist said tenderly.
She gave him a simple nod and stood up. She was taller than the Specialist, who was a head shorter. On her slender body was a white exoderm stretching from her neck, down to her wrists and ankles, and around her neck was a thin metallic collar. After she gave him her hand, Von Howitt led her outside the room.
'This is a very special occasion,' he said, walking nervously alongside her towards the exit of the wing.
Her silence contrasted with the increasing unease in the Specialist's voice, 'You are about to perform an important trial that requires you to follow commands without raising questions.'
They exited the wing and entered a well-lit room with a round counter at the center.
Von Howitt walked up to it.
Inside the cabin was a civilian of a robust stature, wearing a white uniform with the dodecahedron insignia of a Specialist on his chest. He was focused on verifying data on the many holoscreens under the metallic counter and gave no sign of being aware of Von Howitt.
Beyond the counter was a curved permaglass door and beyond it was a deep white hallway filled with crossing corridors that abruptly ended in a distant wall. 
The curved door opened to the sides.
'The escort is awaiting ahead, Specialist Von Howitt,' the pyrean said, eyeing him attentively and then examining the girl. 'Standard procedures are in effect.'
'Certainly, Specialist Marlon,' said Von Howitt, and he led the girl through the door.
Confirming what the Specialist said, on the other side of the checkpoint was a dark oval shaped drone, hovering above the white ground. It hovered no higher than the Specialist's waist, and on top of its dark metal coating was a smoked permaglass dome that sheltered its sensory devices. When it acknowledged their presence, it emitted sounds in distinct frequencies spaced in small intervals, resembling a coded language.
Von Howitt understood what it was saying and when the drone stopped beeping, he answered, 'That won't be necessary, she is sedated.'
The drone beeped again, and its beeps were less spaced and faster, seeming that it was distressed with Von Howitt's reply.
'I will take full responsibility for any damage caused if control over the specimen is lost,' Von Howitt answered. 'Now, lead us to the observations room number thirteen.'
The escort answered with two loud beeps and hovered along the white corridor. Von Howitt followed it one meter behind, the girl alongside him, and as they moved, he cast an occasional sidelong glance through the windowed rooms along the corridor, the breeding chambers inside which new specimens were born. They were immersed in individual incubation tanks hermetically sealed to prevent outside contaminants filled with an amniotic solution that would protect and nurture the still developing fetuses. Inside one of them, a fully mature specimen was restlessly tapping its feet on the permaglass while from the outside a Specialist analyzed the data being displayed on the small holoscreen attached to the tank.
Exiting the level, they walked through an opened blast door and entered the entrance hall, the number ''313'' engraved on its wall. They stepped into a magtube and floated down.
...where are we...
At the underground levels of the Project Facility. It was inside these tightly secured corridors that the cure for the Torment was being conceived. The resulting specimens were bred, kept and observed beyond the knowledge of all but a few Specialists. If something were to go wrong with the procedures, the sturdy blast doors at the entrance would close and anyone inside would be sealed in, to forever remain buried in dark forgotten halls. Some levels below had had that gruesome fate and were now out of service. Throughout the years, many young Specialists were abandoned alive alongside rampaging specimens. Only in the worst of nightmares may you imagine the unspeakable horrors they suffered and the gruesome fate they met. But those are other memories altogether, better left forgotten than remembered...

