
A droid leg was flattened beneath the weight of a metallic foot. Scattered between the deactivated Air Intake Towers were the four discomposed Stalkers. Wollen examined the surrounding area with his sensitive infrared sensors and found a faint trace of heat on the pavement. He approached it, minding his steps, and studied it. In the freezing temperatures the signature had all but disappeared and he could not make out what they meant.
He sniffed the stagnant air.
'The specimen. And an apprentice,' he reported, and his voice was vicious and distorted.
Watching him from the darkness was Mentalist Vittas. He was wearing his crimson mantle, clad with gilded stripes on its shoulders. He had a proud look on his pale face and his gaze seemed to bear an omniscient awareness of everything that surrounded him. He looked down at Wollen, whose crouching form seemed like a misshapen amalgamation of flesh and metal.
'Two apprentices, whose curiosity and foolishness led them to the specimen. They are carrying her out of the field towards the Administrator Sector. Bring them to me as well,' he commanded in an impassive tone. 'Their actions cannot go unpunished.'
Wollen's maimed face lit with a rotten grin. 'With pleasure,' he answered in a ghoulish voice.
With unnatural ease, he leapt vertically, landing on the top of an Air Intake Tower twenty meters above, and then probed the darkened sea of towers with his cold monocle, attempting to find any heat signature.
'Wollen,' called the crimson Mentalist from below. 'You are not to harm them.'
Wollen's cheerful grin sunk underneath a frustrated sneer.
'Yes, Master Vittas,' he answered before his form vanished into the night.

...hideous abomination...neither pyrean nor machine...
Not all cybernetic organisms are foul. To join life with machine may seem unnatural, but the result is still made of elements of the Tides of Fate. In this sense, there is no ingenuity of the living capable of overcoming the tides, for all sentient creatures are bound to them, therefore all that they conceive is still part of the tides. Your ancestors were aware of this phenomenon, even though they did not fully understand it. They named it the Plenitude Principle, and it is the reason why invention cannot be defined as acts of creation, but as acts of transformation. So long as the Tides of Fate continue to flow, the boundaries of transformation are endless.
However, Wollen was a particularly malignant form of life, for he had been purged of all kindness the moment his body was transformed by Mentalist Vittas. He was as old as Darm, and he was designed to become an obedient servant, one able to hunt down darmians that had been deemed unessential to the progress of the metropolis. After so many years of subjugation and punishment under his master's rule, Wollen's mind had become filled with both envy and hatred for all unblemished life, and the only appeasement he found came from inflicting upon darmians the suffering that Vittas inflicted upon him. Of the countless darmians who fell prey to him, some were fortunate enough to survive the encounter and were banished from Darm; others, particularly those unwilling to surrender, suffered a more violent end.

***

'I have to rest for a while,' you conveyed the thought to Haji.
You were breathing intensely through your facemask. Drops of sweat were rolling down its edges and dripping on the marbled pavement. Inside the relative safety of a dimly lit residential cloister, you laid the girl next to you and sat with your back against the outer wall of a residence. The night had become particularly cold and windy - a sign of the impending snowstorm - and when you removed your facemask to refresh yourself, the freezing air flooded your lungs and forced you to cough. You slapped your mouth and listened quietly, hoping that the coughing had not been heard by any sentinels marching on the streets just outside the cloister. To your relief, the only sound to be heard was of water trickling in the fountain at the center of the cloister.
You removed your glove and touched the girl's face. Her skin was cold and hard. Worrying that the freezing temperatures would be too much for her to bear, you undressed your jacket and wrapped it around her face, tying a knot loose enough to allow her to breathe.
The polymerized edges of the facemask gently adhered to the shape of your face, restoring warm air to your lungs. You leaned your back on the wall and peered down the alley towards the street you intended to go. 'There are hardly any sentinels to be seen,' you conveyed the thought to Haji. 'I would think that Mother would be more interested in finding us, yet I haven't received any communication from her.'
'There is definitely something wrong in all of this,' Haji answered back.
You gazed at the girl as she slept. 'Mother called her specimen. What do you think she meant by that? Could Specialists be experimenting on pyreans?' you spoke in a hushed voice.
'I don't know,' Haji answered with disquiet. 'But despite the disturbing implications, that could very well be the case. She is not wearing a Unit, which means that she either exposed to the Torment or she is immune to it.'
'Perhaps,' you said absentmindedly. You were thinking about the moment the droids malfunctioned. She was staring at them with a glow in her eyes, a deep blue glow.
Haji muttered, 'We must leave. Haste is essential if we are to succeed in hiding her in the Shelter.'
His words pulled you back to the quiet residential cloister. You peered once more into the street between the residences and made sure there was no sentinel patrolling it. Re-establishing the link to his Unit, you conveyed the thought to him, 'Let's go. Your turn to carry her and my turn to see if the way is clear.'
'I was expecting that,' he answered as he lifted the girl into his arms.
Haji followed you close behind as you crossed the street towards the next residential cloister, only to cross the cloister onto the next street. You repeated this process with growing efficiency, always looking around the corners of the alleys before stepping out, always attentive to the sounds coming from the streets, always hoping that neither clink nor clank would resound off the rooftops. After many cloisters had been left behind and many casual patrols of sentinels avoided, the time to enter the Manufacturing Sector drew upon you.
Standing at the end of one of the last alleys before the bright East Boulevard, you and Haji studied the two pairs of sentinels that guarded it, performing their mechanical back and forth march. They swept a segment of fifty meters, each pair patrolling a separate lane of the Boulevard, and they moved in opposite directions so that their combined line of sight granted them a seemingly flawless perception of the Boulevard. Fortunately, you were aware that sentinel visual sensors had a field of vision limited to 160 degrees, a specification that few darmians were aware of, but something that had helped you and Haji avoid them on many occasions on your journeys to the Shelter. 
Studying their perfectly synchronized march, Haji noticed that if you crossed the lanes just as both pairs turned their backs to each other you could reach the other side before they turned around at the end of their segment. To accomplish this, the timing and speed had to be flawless; but you had mastered an activity that was much alike the task. To you, it was as simple as calculating a drifter jump between the paths of two other drifters.
Waiting for the right moment, you conveyed to Haji a concern that was starting to trouble you, 'When Brent finds her in the Shelter we will be in a lot of trouble.'
'Let's worry about getting her inside the Shelter first,' Haji answered. 'Go, now!'
You left the alley, sprinting across the dry pavement, the warm gust of wind coming from the ventilation boxes muffling the sound of your footsteps as the sentinels marched away from you. When you reached the alley at the other end, you turned to see Haji lagging behind as the sentinels finished their segments, and for a moment you felt that he was going to be spotted.
Haji crossed the Boulevard just before the sentinels turned around, stopping by your side as the clinking of footsteps passed by.
He sighed with relief. 'Flawless,' he conveyed while panting from carrying the girl.
'Just like beating Zigvirat,' you returned the thought while chuckling.
Haji allowed himself to chuckle with you as he recovered his breath.
In that moment of respite, you looked back to the alley where you were before and you thought you saw the odd gleam of a metallic figure. Its shape was too bent and distorted by the warm vapor spewed out from a ventilation box to make out, but it did not seem a droid for its head did not have the same metallic gleam as his chest. You were trying to make out what it was when Haji nudged you.
'Come. We're still not out of danger.'
You nodded to him.
With haste and caution, you covered the distance to the Shelter through the alleys and streets of the tall facilities. For the first time in your existence, you had lingered in the streets well into Sleep Time, and the same course you were so used to take on peaceful bright afternoons, now carried with it an ominous darkness and a strange silence that warned you to be doubly aware. It had not been the first time you had breached a Directive, nor would it be the last, but never to this point. Mother was actively searching for you, and it was only a matter of time until She found and arrested you. Yet for all your worry, there was still not a single sentinel to be seen. The Manufacturing Sector was nothing more than a dark quiet place, whose empty streets and tall shadowy buildings resembled more the surreal constructs of nightmares than the prominent Manufacturing Facilities of Darm. Even worse, was the heavy snow that had begun to fall, a sign that the snowstorm had arrived.
You halted at a snowy alley, three alleys away from Brent's, and waited for Haji as he stopped next to you, struggling to hold the girl on his arms.
'Let's carry her together,' you conveyed. 'There doesn't seem to be any sentinel here.'
As you lifted the girl's arm over your shoulder, a slow repetitive clinking crept down the narrow walls. You immediately looked up at the facility's rooftops, but you could not see past the white flakes of snow that rushed towards your visor. The thought of black droids suddenly emerging out of the thick white snow and surrounding you in that narrow alley rooted you in place. You glanced at both ends of the alley, staring for what seemed an eternity.
'Run,' you whispered feebly.
A hideous laughter echoed down the walls. This time, when you looked up, there was something looming over the edge of one facility, something bearing a strange resemblance to a pyrean crouching in an odd fashion and staring down at you, his head bowing low, his hands gripping the edge of the roof between his feet, its bent knees pointing upwards. His face was too darkened to make out, yet its misshapen form seemed unlike anything you had ever seen.
Startled by that apparition, which you could only describe as a grotesque manifestation of the Torment, you darted down the alley, sharing the burden with Haji, as you both carried the girl on your shoulders. 
Just as you were nearing the street, you and Haji recoiled as a plume of snow lifted into the air before you when something heavy smashed the pavement. As the plume settled, you saw to your shock that the thing that was staring at you from the roof was now standing before you as clearly and vividly as needed be. His appearance was grotesque, a tall long-limbed body made of decayed flesh and silvery metal, all bound together by screws and sutures. His muscular legs were a concoction of flesh and pneumatics with sturdy metal kneecaps and metallic feet; his bare abdominals were surmounted by a wide chest clad in silvery armor; his bare left arm was overly muscular, layered in decomposed flesh, while his right arm was made of metal and pneumatics with a metallic claw as a hand. It was Wollen, and he cast a terrifying gaze at you with his dark monocle and a pale gray eye surmounted by a scarred forehead. 
'Going somewhere?' he asked in a harsh mechanical voice.
You stared at that strange spectacle of misshapen flesh and bolted metal, all the while thinking that in no way could the crude contraption in front of you be one of the missing Specialists.
'What are you?' you asked with a puzzled look on your face.
The creature let out a sinister chuckle and extended his claw-like metallic hand. 'Hand her over,' he ordered, exposing a gruesome line of rotten teeth as he grinned.
