For a second you tried to imagine the outcome of the move; and a second was all the time Dromuzit needed to position his drifter at your right side. When he did, Zigvirat quickly reduced his speed and slid down to your left side. You barely had time to realize what had happened before you were trapped between both.
'Caught in a pinch,' said Zigvirat's pleased voice through the general chat.
Then they both began pinching your drifter, smashing it once, and twice, and thrice. A torrent of sparks sprayed from the electric-blue hull and glittered into space.
'Hey Drom, Lookey here! A fidgety darmian!' Zigvirat yelled, and again he smashed his drifter against yours. 
The crowd cheered when your front ring-rudder was torn from your drifter and floated away into space.
'OOPS!' yelled Dromuzit. 'That had to be important!'
'I've lost all frontal steering,' you warned Haji.
'Let them control your approach,' he replied through the private channel. 'It is time to put our plan into action.'
Haji discretely began to lower his speed, allowing Deeda to move in and overtake him. Once she was alongside him, speeding up to pass, Haji quickly matched her speed and their drifters darted furiously side-by-side towards the turbopad. Zigvirat and Dromuzit saw the dangerous wall that had formed on the perpendicular lane, and they pressed down on your drifter to block your escape. Confident of Haji's strategy, you did not make any effort to avoid them.
'Submitting already, huh?' Zigvirat asked and his voice seemed almost disappointed. 'Being a nice boy like your daddy taught you?'
'LOSER!' cried Dromuzit. 'At least put up a fight!'
They pinched your drifter with theirs and began setting your approach on an interception course with the two drifters climbing up the ramp on the other platform. Deeda buffeted Haji's drifter until the last moment, attempting to intimidate him, but Haji stayed on her side with undisturbed serenity. When her attempts failed, Deeda set up his approach to intercept your drifter's trajectory.
You and Haji sprang into space first, and your drifters whizzed past each other, avoiding collision by a mere strand of hair before all five drifters landed harmlessly on their respective platforms. The race continued to the sound of awe of the spectators.
'DAMN LUCKY!' yelled Dromuzit through the general chat.
Haji was not impressed, nor did he consider it to be luck, for he had calculated everyone's trajectory down to the millimeter.
''It's the Final Lap!'' announced the admin above the thrilled cheers, and the excitement was justifiable for they had not seen such an exciting Space-Trash finale since the dawn of the game.
As they entered the half-pipe, and with their drifters' hulls upgraded to withstand damage, Zigvirat and Dromuzit pinched your drifter without concern. In an outstanding stunt, Zigvirat spun his drifter across the lane performing a 360, and with a short thrust, he picked your rear ring-rudder clean with the tip of his drifter, resuming his course afterwards without even lagging behind.
''Steering disabled. Hull in critical condition,'' the red warning flashed intermittently in your HuD.
'Don't fall apart!' you pleaded to your drifter in response to the ominous sounds of cracking and tearing coming from just about every part of its translucent shell.
The final jump came into Haji's sight. Rays of the giant blue star shimmered on his electric-blue drifter as he started his final approach, hard-pressed against Deeda's electric purple drifter.
'Get ready to activate the reverse thrusters,' you heard him through the private channel.
It was the decisive moment for the remaining five. The Game Hall was teeming with fervent spectators, some with their eyes fixed on the visual projectors, others cramming against the wide window that stooped over the track. On one of the track's platforms, Zigvirat and Dromuzit were overjoyed: they had neutralized your drifter and their victory was soon at hand. On the other, Deeda was struggling to overtake Haji: she would mend her mistake and finish the race in first, even if she had to eliminate all her opponents. 
Haji was relying on just that, and he effortlessly carried out his strategy, matching his speed with hers as both darted side-by-side up the ramp.
''Collision imminent!'' the red caution flashed on the upper view of every player's HuD.
As you came up the ramp to the final jump, Zigvirat and Dromuzit pointed your drifter towards Haji's and Deeda's. Your approach had been too easy to set up. You heard Dromuzit's laughter in the general chat.
The turbopad's edge approached menacingly fast. Your drifter was stuck between theirs. The boundary was almost upon you. In that last split-second before the edge, time slowed down and all your senses were roused to their fullest. The sound of the drifters roared on your ears; your heart pounded in your chest; the slow tempo of the techno beat resonated through your avatar and the smell of burnt fuel flooded your nostrils. Then you heard Zigivirat's mocking aloud on the general chat:
'So long sucka!'
'Now,' you heard Haji's calm voice a split-second after.
You immediately activated the reverse thrusters; Zigvirat and Dromuzit were still pressing against your drifter and their drifters darted towards each other. Almost out of instinct, Zigvirat corrected the trajectory and hit full throttle, springing into space towards the other platform. On the other side, Dromuzit was still laughing maniacally when his drifter veered to the left and was boosted aimlessly towards a star as yellow as his teeth.
Eyes shut tightly, Deeda crossed ahead of Zigvirat while Haji pointed his drifter towards Zigvirat's. 
Full throttle into the flight, Zigvirat could only but stare in dismay as the nose of Haji's drifter flew straight towards his flank. 
He yelled before being cut off, 'Son of a-'
A silent blinding light filled the entire racetrack as the space between the ramps burst into a thunderous explosion that outshone every star and galaxy.
''Multiple collisions!'' yelled both admins.
An eerie silence overcame the entire audience.
Two drifters sprang from the explosion and landed safely on the platforms.
A deafening ovation blew the speakers away, as a large billboard hovering in space flashed with the word ''Outstanding!''.
''Players eliminated: Zigvirat, Dromuzit, and Wogli; How about that! The ''Eliminators'' have been eliminated for the first time!'' said the admin's voice above the deafening noise.
The blinding light slowly faded, unveiling a massive shower of dazzling particles that rained down on the entire track for minutes, many even floating far beyond like shooting stars falling into the void. The sight was a magnificent reward granted to the two drifters that crossed the finish line, which was a wall of light that burst into sparkling fireworks.
''We have a winner! Rogli from the team Darmian Duo! Second place goes to our deeellectable Deeeda from team Metal Kitty! All remaining players eeeliminated!'' yelled the admin.
'YESS!' you shouted inside your drifter, your avatar trembling with excitement. 'We did it!'
You savored the moment with a victory lap on your tattered and steerless drifter, trundling it along the half-pipes, allowing their curvature to lead you along the track. After the seemingly endless applause subsided into cheerful murmuring, you exited the track with the ''Return to pit'' command. As you dematerialized, your drifter turned into dust that scattered towards the stars, leaving behind an empty, battered, and scorched racetrack.

Back on the pit, Haji was waiting for you. After you emerged from the Avatar Materialization and Matter Translocation Pad , your avatar encircled with twirling specks of light, he greeted you with a low bow.
'I assume congratulations are in order,' he said in his warm voice.
'Did you plan this from the beginning?!' you asked with amazement as you stopped before his small avatar.
He looked up at you and smiled. 'Not quite,' he answered, knowing the time to reveal his plan had come. 'I did not mean to collide with Zigvirat. I intended to force his elimination with Deeda but when you lost both ring-rudders I realized that my plan would not succeed. So as an alternative, I allowed Deeda to skid past me at the turbopad, thus preventing Zigvirat and Dromuzit's attempt to direct you towards us, and then I flew against Zigvirat, thus preventing him from achieving victory. Furthermore, I was confident that Dromuzit would eliminate himself in that moment of distraction, which he eventually did, and since you were in the leading group, my sacrifice ensured your victory.'
With the adrenaline still rushing through you, you only managed to understand half of what he said. His strategy had been so effectively implemented that you asked, 'Have you ever considered becoming an Overseer?'
Haji shrugged and smiled. 'It is not a role I wish to perform,' he said. Then, he pointed towards the airtight door that led to the corridor. 'Come, it is time to claim your reward.'

Outside the pit, a loud commotion was coming from the Race Hall at the end of the tunnel. Its entrance was congested with players and spectators sharing in laughter and conversations. As you walked up the corridor and approached the crowd, Zigvirat and Dromuzit stepped in front of you, blocking your path. Their avatars were practically identical: tall, bulky, and ridiculously brawny, giving the peculiar appearance that their tight red tracksuits were one size too small. Their skin was overly pinkish, and their hair was flaxen, short, and curly; their facial bone structure was excessively protruded. All in all, they looked so ridiculous that you were led to assume they had made a terrible miscalculation when creating their avatars and were not aware of the ''undo'' command.
They stared at you with stern faces, their eyes kindled with anger.
Zigvirat narrowed his eyes and spoke, his facial muscles filled with tension, 'In Remgast we have a saying: only a loser upgrades his drifter with reverse thrusters.'
You did not answer. You stood your ground, staring at him defiantly; your avatar was no less imposing than his. From the tension that followed you were almost certain that a brawl was about to start. But, just as you were about to punch him in the face in a pre-emptive attempt to finish him off quickly, he bowed graciously.
'Congratulations for the victory,' he snarled through gritted teeth.
He raised his head and eyed Haji with contempt, 'Wogli, your move was unexpected. It seems that you are beginning to learn the purpose of this game. It's about time.'
Haji bowed courteously. 'It is only a matter of knowing your opponent. However, you should have suspected. I warned you that if I were to lose, you would lose with me.'
Zigvirat sneered, 'Even if I lost, you lost too, and yer teammate only beat Dromuzit with luck.'
'I am not surprised that you think that way,' said Haji. 'The highest precision in calculating an approach may pass as luck to the unaware mind.'
It was clear that Zigvirat was trying to understand his statement. He stared at him emptily, an awkward twitch on his lips revealing the enormous intellectual effort that was taking place. Then, seeming that he had finally grasped the meaning, he loomed his tall, muscled avatar over Wogli's short chubby avatar. 
'Are ya sayin' I'm stupid?' he asked menacingly. 'How about I smack your ass back to your daddy and teach you how we solve things in Remgast?'
Drawn to the commotion, the crowd nearing the entrance to the hall formed a half circle around you. A fight was always the perfect way to end a race, and some of them began to chant repeatedly, ''Brawl! Brawl! Brawl!''
Out of nowhere, Brent's stern face popped up in front of you.
'Time is running short,' he said with unease. 'If you start a fight, I'll have to pull you out. Better get your cup instead.'
Immediately after it disappeared, you stepped in and gently pushed Zigvirat and Haji aside.
