You were too perplexed to reply, but not perplexed enough to forget the task at hand. Empowered by the sense of commitment towards the girl, you placed her on Haji's arms and conveyed the thought to him, 'Take her to the Shelter. The code is ''seven-two-nine-two-four''.'
 Then you put one step forward, challenging the frightening creature.
Haji would not argue with you; the sight of that mixture of flesh and machine had baffled him beyond words. He nodded and headed back to the way he came, dragging the girl beside him.
Wollen feigned a left hook to your face. When you ducked, he leapt over you like an agile animal and thrust himself towards Haji. Sensing his approach, Haji threw himself onto the snowy pavement, the girl falling next to him; he had avoided a vicious blow to the back instants before it landed.
Unimpressed by his quick reaction, Wollen halted his momentum, turned around, and bent towards him, extending his hand as if to help him stand up. 'I will not let you run, so why not spare yourself from a beating and come with me?' he asked with a strange formality, almost like that of a citizen of Darm.
Fueled by a desperate rush of adrenaline, you recalled all the fighting that took place in the halls of the Drifter Races and dashed towards him, lunging at him, feet first, and clashing against his silvery back. It was a direct hit, and he rolled down the deep alley until the blanket of snow halted him.
'Go, now!' you said aloud.
Haji heard you plainly. He jumped to his feet, lifted the girl to his arms and ran past you. As you saw him leave, he disappeared into the snowy darkness. It was up to you to stop the creature from chasing him.
'You should not have done that,' you heard him speak somberly.
You turned to look at him, three meters away from you, only to see him rise to his feet and calmly wipe the snow from his plated shoulders. Ignoring the urge to flee, you gazed around, searching for something that would help you confront him, but there was nothing in the dark alleys of the Manufacturing Sector. You stepped backwards nervously, clenching your fists, crushing the dread that ran rampant through your body, 'Come any closer and I'll do it again,' you provoked, the voice projected from your facemask trembling with doubt.
Wollen chuckled scornfully and twisted his neck from side to side to extend its muscles, his joints snapping softly. 'I might just have to, but I doubt you will even see me,' he said just before he encroached upon your listless body with impossible speed and struck you with an overpowering blow the stomach. 
You immediately fell to your knees, coughing uncontrollably.
Staring down at your defeated posture, he said with displeasure, 'Are you ready to give up? Or do I need to beat you up a little more?'
Ignoring the nauseating pain, you jumped to your feet and aimed a succession of angered jabs to his head, but none made contact, as the creature successively dodged them with ease. Your strength slowly draining away with each consecutive miss, you aimed one desperate fist at his bare abdomen. 
Wollen did not dodge it. He did not have to. His solid abdomen took the blow without so much as budging while the impact almost broke your wrist. Looking down at your quavering body, he chuckled in his deformed timbre, and with one single swooping kick to your abdomen, he sent you tumbling down the alley.
After you came to a stop, you grabbed your aching abdomen while moaning in pain. Wollen allowed you to recover, staring at you in an unimpressed manner as you sat on your knees, moaning and struggling to breathe. It was hard for you to accept, but you had no chance of stopping the heinous creature standing in front of you. You were hopelessly outmatched and the only thing that prevented you from succumbing to the debilitating chest pain was the unmitigated desire to help the girl. As you clung to that thought, her deep blue eyes came to your mind, her soft cool face grimacing as her head collapsed against your chest. Even if you could not stop him, to the least you would ignore the pain a little longer and use your remaining strength to stall him for as long as you could.
...confidence comforts...
Calmness enveloped you as an unexpected sense of confidence overcame your thoughts. You removed your facemask, exposing your face to the freezing air and gazed peacefully at the pyrean's maimed countenance five meters away from you. He did not seem unsightly anymore, nor did he seem menacing. He was merely someone, something, a thing that had to be stopped.
...courage strengthens...
Wollen growled and charged towards you, building up a relentless momentum. His attack would most certainly injure you severely, but you did not falter. You stood your ground, focusing on the single purpose of stopping it. He aimed his knee at your chest, but you did not lose heart. You crossed your forearms before you, driven by the desire to withstand the blow, even if it would ultimately cost you your existence.
...resolve protects...
Your eyes were kindled with the red glow of resolve, as all your consciousness was engulfed by that overwhelming emotion. Your forearms were flooded by a burning torrent of blood and the exoderm upon them was torn asunder by a myriad of red crystals that erupted from the skin. Wollen's knee smashed against it furiously, but the crystal shell held firm, receiving the blow without shattering, projecting a bright flash that for a second painted the dark alley in crimson.
The blow knocked you and Wollen to the ground, and after you scrambled to your feet, you could only but stare in awe, your eyes widened upon the thick shell of red crystals softly gleaming on your forearms. You could not comprehend what you were seeing, but before you could make any sense of it, Wollen - who had already gotten up - aimed a foot at your chin; out of reflex, you blocked the attack with one forearm, and once more, the red crystals deflected the blow, projecting a bright crimson flash and casting the creature back.
Excitement flowed through you as you realized you now had something you could defend yourself with, and without any other thought you aimed your fist at the creature's awe-stricken face. He was too surprised to avoid it. To your own misfortune. 
When your fist struck the creature's face, you felt a sting of pain so intense that, before you realized what had happened, you were down in the ground, grabbing your wrist with a cry stuck in your throat. 
When you looked at your arm, eyes narrowed in pain, there were no more crystals on your skin; your frail bones had been too weak to withstand the impact and your hand was shattered. The pain was excruciating, but even before you could overcome it, Wollen grabbed the collar of your exoderm and lifted you into the air. Then, he thrust you against the wall, grabbing your left forearm and staring at its back. When he saw your Unit properly adhered to the skin, he was confused for a moment. He leaned towards you in until his face stopped a breath away from yours.
'How were you able to manifest?' he asked in a commanding tone, his breath reeking of rotten teeth.
You could not stop moaning in pain, so he threw you towards the other wall. When your back and head smashed against it, your sight was filled by an explosion of sparkling lights, and unrelenting waves of wooziness sapped all the remaining strength from you. 
You collapsed over the snowy pavement, and as you teetered on the edge of consciousness, you heard an irritated growl and a statement filled with disdain, 'Pitiful.'
...if only I could harness them...
