The mentor nodded, flashing a smile.
'Amardan was the name given to a native tribe located in the boreal region of the Western Continent. There are no accurate measures of the prevailing numbers, but it is believed that they have all disappeared. They inhabited the lower canyons of the Cloven Plateaus, which consists of a complex system of plateaus. Orbital scans over the Cloven Plateaus suggest that their primary settlement was located on the margins of the river Fresca.'
'Very well,' the mentor interrupted. 'Anyone care to continue?'
After Samuel and Sophie completed Heidi's presentation, mentor Gordon progressed to addressing the peculiarity of the inhabitants of Amardan. He began by explaining that their physical appearance was markedly different from a pyrean, and had been caused by the Torment and the geographical isolation that subjected them to the relentless frozen winds of the Boreal Glaciers during thousands of years:
'When the temperatures became far too cold to withstand, they were forced to migrate further to the south of the Cloven Plateaus and after establishing a new settlement, their explorations led them to a route through the canyons, down to the northern lands of the Western Continent. They were immediately dreaded by the outlying settlements of pyreans as they soon proved to be wild and ruthless. After a succession of incidents that led to the destruction of many pyrean settlements, the pyreans were successful in driving them back to the Cloven Plateaus during the Starvation Years. They were given the name odyr , a name apparently derived from the native language, which means essentially ''big woolly pyreans''.'
...I have heard of these creatures...but I have never found one...
They were real as they are still, although how they were depicted in this indoctrination was not the most accurate of accounts, to say the least. Kind and compassionate by nature, these creatures had no ill intentions towards the pyreans, yet they soon became unwelcome in their land because of their imposing and menacing appearance. The settlers were quick to judge them as beasts and soon began to provoke and attack them, a reaction that served to the odyrs as a sign that they were to return to the Cloven Plateaus and forever remain there, far from any settlement.
'Odyrs were giant and extremely robust, with a thick bristly mantle which preserved their body temperature. These attributes granted them the ability to endure the extreme weather common to the latitudes they inhabited,' the mentor continued. 'Despite their primitive tendencies, they were cunning and intelligent, and they had often hunted pyreans as a food source before they were cast back into the canyons.'
Interjections of wonder were heard amongst the apprentices. Many covered their mouths; others were struck with surprise and did not react.
'How could they eat pyreans?!' Jack felt the urge to ask without permission, and his tone was smeared with nausea.
Mentor Gordon gave him a sharp glance, and continued, 'Odyrs might have very well been our ancestors, as difficult as it may be to acknowledge. It is believed that they were once antigans but were exposed to the Torment for far too long during the Age of Obscurity. It slowly deformed their appearance and twisted their minds as they turned to savagery. They began to feed on whatever they could find, and when food became scarce, they began to feed on each other,' he said and sighed affectedly. 'It is regrettable, but such was the outcome for most of those who existed in the time before our Guiding Father.'
As the apprentices fell into quiet contemplation, the mentor conveyed to the holoprojector a depiction of their appearance. Most reacted with silent discomfort, shifting in their seats or looking away, and for a moment not even the sound of breathing was heard inside the room. You even thought that Marlene would throw up again as you glanced at her and saw her already pale cheeks become more and more anemic. But she controlled her displeasure, as did the rest of the class. You were one step away from becoming citizens, and apprenticeship had a way of disconnecting a darmian's mind from the world outside. A cold detachment for all things beyond the Great Wall and the Sea of Tranquility had been bred into your hearts and minds, and some were even beginning to see things with the insensible analytical perspective of a Mentalist. Yet, as you looked at their depiction, you could not help but feel awe. They were shaped in the same fashion as pyreans, but their constitution was most different: their long arms ended in huge paws clad with long claws and they were almost twice as big as an average darmian, and their body was entirely covered with a thick mane of gray and white fur. Their face was covered in fur as well, with two menacingly sharp lower teeth sprouting from their dark lips, dark as their round smooth nose, eyelids and ears. Yet for all its ferocious appearance there was something deep in its hazel eyes, a profound kindness, a soft exuding compassion that revealed their bonds of kinship with the Pyre. Tears of wonder lit your eyes as you felt that you were looking at a long-lost ancestor, now found.
'That is one ugly creature!' Jack cried, as was his habit when things impressed him beyond restrain.
This time it was the mentor who allowed himself to giggle in response. 'They are, are they not?' he said in a joyous mood, entirely out of conduct for a mentor. 'Sometimes I wonder in my worst of thoughts, how foul they must smell or sound. It is very relieving to know that we will never have to see one in person.'
You were deeply disturbed by his derision. You dismissed Jack's answer altogether for you knew he did not mean those words, not truly. But the disdain in the mentor's eyes, the snide sound of his voice, forced you to speak, 'Mentor Gordon, I do not think your behavior is acceptable for a citizen of Darm,' you said, and your harsh remark pierced the air with the dominance of a reprimand.
A thick terrible silence smothered the indoctrination room. No image more frightening could have caused more dread in the eyes of mentor Gordon than the words you spoke. His stare was of shock. But yours was filled with resolve as you waited for him to answer to the letter. In fact, you wanted him to. Some unknown feeling stirred inside you when mentor Gordon spoke ill of the odyrs, and it seeped into your thoughts, begging you to allow it to take over. 
...the things that are foulest are buried deep within us...they have neither sound...nor smell...nor shape...
Mentor Gordon's face turned into a blank pale expression. His lips trembled slightly and for a moment he seemed to shrink to the image of a frightened pyrean. 
Suddenly, he skimmed his hands down his jacket, hid them behind his back and stretched himself tall upon the dais. 
'So, it seems you are productive after all, apprentice Balthazar. One can only be grateful to have an apprentice such as you to ensure the validity of one's indoctrination,' he said with a clear sharp voice. 'You are correct, for once. My apologies, class.'
Then he looked at Jack and with solemn formality declared:
'Apprentice Thompson, it is the second occasion during this indoctrination alone that you have disregarded the obligation to request permission to speak. As your colleague so vehemently reminded me, I am forced to notify you, for the first and last time, that if you are to disregard any obligation but once more, you will be disciplined accordingly, as it is commanded by the Directives established by the Council of Mentalists.'
Jack was speechless. He looked at him submissively and nodded. 'I understand, mentor Gordon,' he said despondently.
After the reprimand, the lesson proceeded with an eerie quietness. From time to time the mentor would look out the windowed wall to stare at one or another detachment of sentinels that patrolled the curved walkway between the Academy and the Central Circle, utterly unaware of the prolonged amount of time he spent in doing so, and the indoctrination soon ended, sooner than anyone would expect, but not sooner enough than everyone would like. As your colleagues stood and walked to the exit, you waited for Jack while he silently rolled up his neuropad, his head tilting low, his joyous mood turned into aloofness.
'My apologies, Jack,' you said as he walked towards the exit.
He stopped and looked at you dejectedly.
'Apology not accepted,' he said chipping your shoulder as he exited.
Mentor Gordon calmly followed behind and when he walked past you, he threw you a thin smile.
...cunning beast...

As you sat quietly next to Haji, while you finished your lunch in the great table of the crowded mess hall, Cathy, who had already finished hers, approached you intently, 'Do not worry, Alan. Jack will forget all about it after tonight's Gathering.'
'It was not your fault, Alan,' added Sophie, standing next to her. 'You did well in alerting mentor Gordon of his behavior. I for one found his disregard towards formality very upsetting.'
'Thank you,' you said to them, and a chain of thoughts led you to a curious conclusion. 'On a related topic Jack was the fourth person I had to apologize to today, - you gave Haji a sidelong glance and spoke close to his ear - I'm blazing, as gastians say.'
Haji smiled.
'How do you know what gastians say?' Sophie asked, leering at you with suspicion.
You looked at her with surprise and quickly corrected yourself, 'Would say! I mean as gastians would say, that is if I ever met one in person.'
'And how do you know what they would say?' she insisted.
There was no way of quelling her suspicion without lying, but you could not lie without your Unit notifying Mother of such act, which would result in being summoned by Overseers for interrogation. However, revealing the truth to her and Cathy was as dangerous a compromise as was lying. As you gave them a baffled stare, a subtle solution quickly came to your mind, 'I'm guessing?' you asked rhetorically.
Sophie squinted at you. 'Well, I guess you're not as smart as you think you are if you think you can trick me into thinking that that is what you thought.'
You blinked at her innocently, 'What?!'
'I am watching you, Alan,' she said. 'And if you lead Haji into breaching the Directives with more of your mischief you will have to answer to me. That is what!'
She then turned her back and headed out of the mess hall with Cathy at her side.
'Why am I making everyone upset today?' you asked Haji with a surprised look.
'If I were to speculate, I would say it is due to your disinclination towards obeying the Directives, your continuous acts of defiance towards most mentors, and your propensity for finding trouble where trouble is most unlikely to be, troublemaker.'
'Not you too!' you complained under a sigh.
Haji gave you a sly smile. 'I assumed my thorough analysis would cheer you up,' he said and got up with his empty tray on his hands.
'It most certainly did not!' you said and followed him with your tray on your hands.

Every last day of the week before Rest Day the indoctrinations at the Academy ended after lunch, for the Council considered it was best to grant the apprentices some spare time to allow them to review what had been taught during the week. On that special day, the one thousand finalists were granted the afternoon to begin the Gathering, and as soon as Cathy left the Academy, they followed her towards her suite. You, however, had to complete the tasks Miriam had appointed earlier, before even thinking of entertainment.
'Do not take too long, or you will miss all of the individual presentations,' Sophie said, as you and Haji departed in different directions from the mass of apprentices.
'We will not,' Haji assured.
Aware of how daunting the task appointed to you was, Haji had offered to help you, in order to spare you from arriving late at the Gathering. As you slowly rode your hoverboard towards your residence with him at your side, you removed the strange bracelet from your utility belt and showed it to him. After briefly speculating as to whom the bracelet belonged to, you arrived at your residence and stashed it in a small box you kept in your desk drawer, which you used to hide personal items. It was a fortunate gesture. Had you not hidden it there and you would have never found its owner.
