'Zigvirat, this is only a game,' you said, calming yourself down. 'We're here to have fun, not to break teeth or bones, real or not.'
'Says the pompous winner that wants t'a fetch his prize,' Dromuzit added with a crazed grin.
Zigvirat frowned at you. Then, he poked Haji's head with one large index finger, 'You're lucky your buddy stepped in.'
'Once more, it was not luck,' Haji calmly answered. 'I knew he would, even though he did not have to.'
Zigvirat tossed his hand in the air and snarled, 'Bahh...I'm not wastin' my time with your kind,' then he frowned at Haji. 'Be it gastian or darmian, you telepaths are all the same arrogant bastards.'
He turned his back and walked into the crowd, leaving you and Haji behind, blinking at each other.
'What did he say?' Haji asked, utterly confused.
'The telepath part or the bastard part?' you asked.
'Both.'
You shrugged, 'We should ask Brent.'
Haji nodded, 'Let us get your cup before that,' he said and trotted into the Race Hall, leading the way through the dispersed crowd.

Moments later, you were surrounded by the cheering mob: there were the players, still wearing their race suits, the game administrators, who were still discussing about avatar's feet and noses and ears, and many spectators who had watched the race and were now forming a circle around Deeda. 
Once the winners were formally announced, you and Deeda stepped up to the podium that had taken the place of the counter in front of the panoramic window. 
As the crowd cheered, the administrators handed the cups to both of you. They were simple in concept: a flat and round bottom and an arm-shaped bar, yours crafted in diamond and Deeda's in gold, but on top of the bar was a wide-open hand holding a transparent spherical orb, and inside the orb was a miniature Space-Trash racetrack, endlessly replaying the race with its miniscule drifters racing about its eight shaped circuit and jumping in space from platform to platform. Occasionally, a flash of light would erupt from it.
Then the skinny admin spoke, as if reciting a rehearsed speech, 'These Dream Cups represent the Awards for this year's Champions of the Space-Trash Grand Prize. They will forever remain in display in the trophy stands of your pits,' then he added as a joke. 'Don't let the dust settle!'
Loud applause filled the hall. Deeda lifted her cup and pointed it to Malaq, screaming repeatedly, ''This one is for you baby!''
You lifted your cup and let out a truly pleased smile. Standing before so many unknown gastians who lauded you without reserve was an overwhelming sense of accomplishment. It was the first cup you had won, and you owed it to your teammate and best friend.
 ...happiness...I had forgotten how it feels...
'And now's the time to party!' said one of the tall admin. 
He clapped his hands twice and the hall's walls and ceiling disappeared, granting an outstanding view of the starry space.
You climbed down from the podium and presented your cup to Haji; he received it with a smile on his chubby face. Almost immediately afterwards you crossed the crowd of gastians and entered the spawning pad. 
You looked back, already regretting having to leave, and took some time to cherish that last moment, where you saw and heard everyone enjoying themselves, sparkling chalices in their hands, whose liquid contents twirled and rippled like a miniature-whirlpool. Many chatted amusedly, others gazed at the stars and galaxies, and others watched the highlights of the race, replayed by holographic drifters speeding along the racetrack below. Deeda was chatting with one of the administrators, next to Malaq, who was showing off their golden cup to everyone. Then, leaning on a wall, were Zigvirat and Dromuzit, looking back at you with a peaceful smile. Zigvirat lifted his chalice towards you and drank in your homage.
'It's been a pleasure, Rogli and Wogli,' said Zigvirat, and his voice was now kindly.
'Until our next race,' you answered and grinned wickedly.
'Until then.'
You had already realized that their tough and rude attitude was just for show and intimidation. Deep down, he was just like you: a friendly young pyrean trying to enjoy his existence the best he could and having fun doing so.
'If only I could stay...' you whispered to yourself.
And your avatar vanished from that place, never to return.

You slowly opened your eyes, a bittersweet smile on your face. You leaned forward and greeted Brent, who congratulated you and complimented Haji for the cunning plan that had earned you the victory. He had watched the end of the race on the holoscreens behind your chairs and was absolutely delighted with the outcome. 
After powering down the terminals and crossing the liquefied wall that separated the Shelter from Darm, he and Haji continued the conversation with enthusiasm: 
'I lost count of the times you were close to being eliminated!' he said.
'It was an intense race,' Haji stated, a simple smile on his face.
You were quietly following them behind, your attention focused inward. 
During the silence that followed, you asked, 'Brent, what's a telepath?'
Walking up the stairwell, Brent tripped on one step but quickly regained his balance.
'And a bastard,' Haji added.
Arriving at the ground floor of the facility, he stopped and frowned at both of you, 'You're not meant to know,' he said sternly.
'Can we ask the gastians?' you said.
'No,' he promptly answered. 'This was the agreement when you joined the Shelter.'
You nodded, giving him an absentminded stare. You were too tired to insist.
After the maintenance door was tightly sealed behind, you carefully trudged through the cold streets of the Manufacturing Sector. A clouded night was settling over Darm, and a chilling breeze hissed through the nooks of the factories. Rest Time was all but spent and the streets were utterly silent.
Hiding in the alley between the two last facilities before the East Boulevard, Brent took his leave with a discrete bow, 'Go through the residential cloisters and stay out of sight.'
You and Haji nodded.
You were about to step into the Boulevard when Brent spoke, 'One last thing. The Shelter is going to be closed for a couple of weeks. I'll let you know when you can come back.'
'Will it be open by the time of the next race?' you asked with concern.
He shrugged, his hands in the pockets of his yellow jacket, 'I can't say.'
Looking at his uneasy posture, you were not convinced that he was uncertain, and you felt that he was trying to keep himself from explaining the reason.
He looked at the dismay in your face and rubbed your hair with his big hand, 'Don't worry. I won't forget about your race,' he said and grinned wickedly.
'You better not!' you replied, grinning back.
'Well, today was fun. Be safe,' he said and walked on alone, across the luminous warm Boulevard that separated the two sectors.

After a short disquieting stroll that felt too long, you and Haji arrived at the crossroads that led to your residences. You were weary but pleased.
'Have a nice rest and see you tomorrow at the Academy,' you said before leaving.
'Are you forgetting the meeting?' Haji asked just as you turned to leave.
You let out a sigh through the facemask - you had forgotten about it. You were so pleased with the victory that you felt that your tiresome day had come to a suitable ending. All you wanted now was the quiet comfort of your room.
You threw him a weary scowl, 'Do we really have to? I'm tired and I still want to inquire Mother about some things.'
'Well, I told Sophie I was going, so I have to,' then he added with a pleased voice, 'and I want to. As for you, you would do well to come. Cathy will be assigning tasks for the Gathering and your presence is needed.'
You probed your mind to read the time on your Unit. Dinner Time was coming soon and if you were to go, you would have to go now.
'All right,' you sighed and added discretely, 'I'll go to my residence and let Mother know I'm up. Meet you here in ten minutes?'
'Certainly,' Haji said before bowing and parting in the opposite way.

...Brent was a friend...
He was more than that, as you will come to remember. You enjoyed being with each other very much and Brent always tried to watch as many of your races as he could, despite having to perform the extraordinary maintenance. The first race he ever saw you play was an exciting memory he kept fondly, even if you and Haji had suffered an utter defeat. With some pride, he would consider himself your game mentor and he often offered you suggestions for bold and daring moves. The moments he cherished the most was talking with you after the races, and he savored your every smile of joy, for he felt he was giving you the opportunity to enjoy your life.
...he carried the fate of those who are born to follow...yet he found a path of his own...
