Fifth memory - Anatomy of a virus

[...] and the economy shall be based on the awarding and removal of Credits, the sole currency of the metropolis. The sentient Artificial Intelligence shall continuously monitor the performance of every darmian, from their early stage as an infant up to their final stage as a citizen, and regardless of the stage, the better a darmian will be at performing his tasks, the greater the Credits she shall award them with. As a result of this economic system, the sentient AI shall be able to maintain a stable balance between the requirements and aptitudes of its inhabitants, ensure equal opportunities to everyone, and instill in them from an early age a reward-based mentality that shall greatly enhance productivity.

An excerpt from Annex #03: Currency and Reward Directives; 
Division of Darmian Affairs under the authority of Mentalist Silas;


The next week flew by as the expectations regarding citizenship grew. The turn to citizenship was a decisive event for all darmians, for it was the moment they were required to choose the occupation they would perform for the rest of their existence. Therefore, along with your growing expectation, grew an even greater dread, for you had not yet decided on an occupation that would award your existence with a sense of accomplishment. You hoped however, that when the time came, you would make the right choice, and the Gathering was just the right occasion to find some inspiration, as it represented your last opportunity for entertainment, and maybe one of the last moments you had to enjoy your time with many of your colleagues. As the week stretched on, one day was left before the day of the Gathering.
That morning, the metropolis awoke to the usual sound of citizens flowing in the streets and Boulevards, on their way to their occupations, like orderly rivers coursing through ridges of tall permaglass. Most of them were on foot and all were distinguishable by the color of their uniforms: green for apprentices, yellow for Manufacturing and Spaceport administrators, violet for Hub administrators and mentors, and white for the elite citizens, the Project Specialists. These bore stern faces; their tall, slender bodies clad in white filing over the white marbled pavement as an embodiment of the metropolis herself.
As you strolled down the colorful East Boulevard with a nutrient bar in one hand, you felt the presence of your Unit as she warned you of a communications request from Haji. You conveyed the thought to accept it, and you felt your mind expand beyond your thoughts.
'If you do not slow down, we will not be able to catch up with you,' Haji's faceless voice echoed in your mind.
'Where are you?' you thought as if you were speaking to him.
'Look behind you,' his voice answered.
You looked back and Haji and Sophie saw ten meters away, dressed in their green uniforms, walking through the myriad of colors. You stopped and waited for them, taking the last bite on the nutrient bar, which was becoming as cold and tasteless as snow.
'Salutations, Haji,' you greeted each one with a bow. 'Salutations, Sophie.'
Since the day Haji revealed his affection for her in the Academy hallway - however indirect as it might have been - he and Sophie had become close companions. At times they would exchange smiles and laughter, and even an occasional hug whenever they were out of sight of sentinels and of the draconian scrutiny of Council representatives, for any gesture of intimacy was deemed as unnecessary body contact as was considered a breach of the Directives for proper conduct.
'Salutations, Alan,' Sophie cordially replied. 'Ready for a new day of indoctrination?'
You nodded, demonstrating an odd enthusiasm for the perspective, 'As ready as I can be.'
As you strode on, walking behind a straight line of mentors and apprentices entering the Academy, you whispered to Haji with a sidelong glance, 'The Gathering is tomorrow.'
'I know,' he answered smiling.
Walking past the two dark-blue sentinels guarding its western entrance, you entered the vast white plaza. Before you, was a majestic, curved building with its inner facade facing the Netcore. Like all buildings in Darm, its surface was covered in permaglass, save for the tall frame that sustained it, which was made of glinting impermium .
Climbing its wide stairway and crossing the wide-open doors, you followed the two orderly rows of apprentices entering the building. Although you were many, you did not hear a sound when you entered the hallway, save for the sound of footsteps on its pristine marble floor.
The indoctrination rooms were aligned throughout the inner arch of the hallway with their corresponding number marked above their entrance. When you entered the ''#465'' indoctrination room, you saw the mentor of Fundaments of Existence standing on the dais in front of her apprentices while waiting patiently for the signal to begin indoctrination; sitting at their desks some apprentices exchanged quiet conversations. When a clear sharp note echoed through the corridors and into the indoctrination room, the sliding door behind sealed shut and the apprentices' murmurs faded into an absolute silence. The mentor smiled and approached the first row of desks, bowing afterwards.
'Salutations, apprentices. Today we shall begin our final theme before your rightful admittance to citizenship. Once we have completed it, you shall have an extensive understanding of the pathogen that forever changed the Pyre's genetic code.'
To most of the apprentices, the mentor had an unremarkable voice, but to your ears, her voice was kind and enthralling, much unlike the dull scratchy voice of mentor Levine.
'Who amongst you can share some knowledge about the retrovirus that put an end to the Antiga Pyre?' she asked.
A few hands rose above the silent audience, belonging to apprentices that placidly waited to be called on to answer. Amongst them was Sophie's, and her eyes glinted as she restrained her excitement.
'Very well, we have four apprentices who have prepared this indoctrination. Those of you who have raised your hand, shall take turns to provide the answer in a sequential fashion. Apprentice Lauren, do you care to begin?' she asked turning her attention to Heidi.
Heidi lowered her hand and sat straight in her second-row desk, placing one hand on top of the other, and answered with her delicate voice:
'The entity known as PIn-T2, was a non-lethal retrovirus whose transmission to the host was achieved through any liquid medium. It could be absorbed through the respiratory system by means of airborne aerosols released from a contaminated host, digestive system by means of ingestion of contaminated water or food containing water, or its most effective mean, the transmission of fluids though bodily contact which led to direct absorption by the circulatory system.'
'Very well,' interrupted the mentor. 'Apprentice Adams, you may continue,' she said pointing to Andrew, an apprentice with whom you were not very well acquainted, even though he always carried a friendly expression.
Andrew spoke with proud confidence, which by itself demonstrated his desire in completing his apprenticeship as one of the top ranked apprentices, 'The retrovirus belonged to the Oxygen-Nitrogen based macromolecules, containing a reactive strand of nucleotides. Its organic structure was highly unstable due to the presence of ionized phosphate groups on its skeleton, which in conjunction with its sedimentation velocity allowed it to adhere with great ease to the eukaryotic cells of the Pyre. Once it reached the circulatory system, the retrovirus penetrated the cells by attaching itself to the nucleotides of the genetic code.'
'Well done, apprentice Adams,' the mentor congratulated.
Andrew gave her a proud look while the mentor directed her attention to Sophie, 'Apprentice Andersen, you may continue.'
'The adherence process of the viral RNA strand to the DNA molecules of the host's cells took place in the S-phase, where simply put, a cell's DNA molecules split into two and form two other DNA molecules. The adherence of the viral strand was made possible due to the enzyme integrase that allowed the retrovirus to become part of a cell's DNA through a reverse transcriptase process. As a result, when the S-phase was completed, the cell entered the mitosis phase and formed two new cells carrying the viral DNA strand. These infected cells would then carry on replicating more infected cells through the regular cell cycle. For this reason, the enzyme integrase was one of the fundamental components of the retrovirus, as it served as the tool that allowed it to become part of the cell's genetic code and establish a lifelong infection in the host.'
Haji nodded at her, and his lips moved, saying ''Superb''. 
She gave him a proud smile.
'Well presented, apprentice Andersen,' and the mentor bowed to her. 'Apprentice Emerson you may conclude.'
Francis sank down on his chair and answered timidly, 'I have not attained much more knowledge of the subject, mentor Elias. What I learned by inquiring Mother is that after a new host had been infected, its cells reproduced the retrovirus macromolecule which in turn would release itself into the environment and find new hosts through liquid medium, as Heidi mentioned.'
'Thus, completing the cycle,' mentor Elias added. Her green eyes glinted with satisfaction and her slender face was filled with a gentle smile. 'Well done. I am proud of my apprentices.'
...she was kind...and beautiful...
She was. It was since your earliest days as an apprentice that you nurtured an uncommon admiration for her. To you, every aspect of her was pleasant and proportional. Her white teeth aligned perfectly behind her thin red lips; her amber eyes warmed your heart every time she looked upon you; her captivating smile carried your thoughts away to bold fantasies. Her firm breasts filled her tight violet uniform, her waist was as smooth as a wave function, her fertile hips and her lean thighs urged you to ---
...leave my fantasies out of this and get on with this meaningless subject...
