Prologue

A dark figure, cloaked in a hooded cape, trudged wearily along a muddy path submerged in a dense misty forest. Its sluggish footsteps resembled that of a sleepwalker stepping noisily on shallow puddles and tangled roots, as it followed the pale green glow of fruits that hung from the thick canopy. A mournful cry wailed through the mist, and in a slow vigilant gaze, the cold, grim countenance of a pyrean was revealed from beneath the lowered hood. His name is of no importance, for there was no one to utter it in that forgotten forest, which apart from the faint droning of the glowing fruits seemed immersed in a deep slumber. The moist fragrance that exuded from the flowers seemed to carry unfamiliar memories, and the mottled bark from the tall broad trunks seemed to depict vague tales as primeval as the dawn of life.
There was no one to utter it, but the forest.
Carelessly trampling the undergrowth that had claimed the path, doubt began to stir inside him, forcing him to reconsider his decision in entering Her domain, compelling him to believe that She had deceived him in a final gesture of punishment. Wrapped in that treacherous doubt, it took him some time to realize the steadier glow of the fruits, which now provided him with a clearer sight of the path ahead. As he trod onward, the undergrowth became greener, the flowers livelier, and the crooked roots sprung stronger from the colossal trunks which had become twice as large and countless times taller than him. 
The mist gradually cleared, allowing him to see in the distance a glade laying bare to the silvery night. Confidence warmed his blood and banished all his doubts, for he knew he was arriving at the heart of the forest, the cradle of life, Her dwelling.
As he approached the glade, his black boots enveloped in the dormant mist, he took his first step on solid ground, and as he looked down, he saw that the path had turned into a trail of worn stepping stones that ended further ahead, at the porch of a small wooden cottage standing at the center of the glade. It seemed abandoned, reclaimed by the forest, with thick moss covering the deformed roof and fungi sprouting from the darkened walls.
He approached it, resolute.
A rocking chair swung eerily on the porch, fanned by an unfelt breeze. As he approached the door, his heavy footsteps on the wooden floor creaked from the porch to the glade and from the glade to the forest, rendering the chair to a still silence. When his dark glove was about to touch the rusty handle, something stopped him: a fleeting whisper floating with the breeze summoned him to the back of the cottage. She was calling him, so he answered without hesitation. 
And so it was that after countless days of wandering, he found Her, sitting quietly on an old, felled tree. A hood draped over Her face, and She was huddled in a worn gray robe that hid Her body. At Her waist, a thick rope tied the robe to Her withered form.
'At last I find you, witch,' he muttered in an accursed tone as he stopped before Her.
She seemed oblivious to his presence, rather focused on splitting leaves from a crooked branch and placing them in a pestle resting next to Her on the stone bench.
'That is no manner to address the one who saved you from death,' She uttered inattentively, Her haunting voice but a fleeting breeze.
When she picked the last leaf, the branch faded from Her hand, turning into mist that scattered through the heavy air. She placed the leaf on the pestle and pulled back Her hood, revealing Herself to him.
She donned the appearance of an elder lady, but Her wrinkled face lacked skin, flesh or bone, and Her long translucent hair was as silvery as the rays of light that shone upon Her. She seemed older than the forest, older than time itself even, and Her ethereal shape betrayed Her as a divine entity whose lingering on the material plane had withered Her grace.
'Death,' he muttered, impressed by Her appearance. 'For so long I have felt without life yet the meaning of that word still eludes me.'
She gave him a kind smile. 'And yet here you are, searching for the meaning of both,' she uttered, her voice a pleased breeze. 'Tell me, when was the last time you shed a tear?'
His darkened eyes glinted with displeasure from underneath the hood, for he knew just what She intended to ask. It had been so long since last they met, yet still She clung to the hope that he could be rescued from the emptiness that had consumed him.
After a fleeting silence, he raised his head proudly. 'I bear the burden of tears no more, witch,' he said. 'They have dried out, along with my past.'
Upon hearing him, Her smile faded and She turned once again to Her task. With Her ethereal hands She picked up the pestle and mortar and started crushing the stack of leaves and petals inside it. When they began forming a thick blue paste, their fragrance was released to the dormant glade. It was a soft and soothing scent, and wherever it spread, the saturated air became as fresh as a spring breeze.
'This forest is ancient,' she uttered. 'It holds a power that no living creature can tame.'
As he thoughtlessly inhaled the air, he sensed a change in him. The burden of carrying his body had lightened, and his mind was visited by visions of long forgotten places. Surrendering himself to the growing tranquility, he raised his head to the silvery night and his hood fell on his back, revealing his cold deathly face and long black hair. He closed his eyes and took a deep breath, filling his lungs with the soothing fragrance. His chest grew beyond the black cape and as the fine thread holding it around his neck untied, the cape fell to the ground, revealing all at once his grand shape. He was strong and menacing, and wore a plain crimson tunic tucked under a dark belt adorned with intricate patterns of gold. On his robust legs he wore a pair of black breeches tucked into the tall boots.
'What a pyrean you have become,' remarked the ethereal figure, whose meager size was half his stature. 'The first I met you, you were but a scrawny boy. Now you have become great beyond comparison.'
'Pyrean?' he asked bitterly, opening his eyes. 'No. There is no Pyre left in me.'
She rose from the stone bench and placed a palm on his chest, the touch flooding his body with a renewed calmness. 'Do not lose faith. That boy lives on inside you. You lost sight of him only because you stopped looking,' she uttered, and her haunting voice carried an alluring kindness. 'No one ever truly forgets. There is a part of us that is eternal. And that part, whether you want it or not, not even death can erase.'
He lowered his eyes, humbled by Her unbridled grace, 'It is only by your will that I still live.'
She smiled and turned to grab the mortar containing the finished mixture. Then, she walked to a cauldron boiling on a fire at the back of the wooden cottage. She dripped the liquefied paste into the bubbling water and stirred it with a long wooden spoon, whispering an indecipherable chant. After it had coagulated into a glowing blue soup, she picked up a nearby wooden bowl and dipped it in the cauldron.
He raised his head proudly and spoke with impatience, 'I have come to fulfil my oath. Tell me what You will have me do or release me from it.'
Bearing the bowl in Her hands, She walked back to him, as the weightless flowers floating around Her body left a trail behind.
'I will have you do nothing,' She said firmly, 'but to drink from this bowl. It is then that your oath shall be redeemed, and the answers that you seek found.'
He gazed at her ethereal form and spoke with resolve, 'If that is all You ask of me, so be it.'
She took one sip from the bowl and then offered it to him.
He accepted it, snatching it with one brute hand. Then he drank without hesitation one mouthful of the warm soup. Its taste was intense and difficult to withstand. He closed his eyes, and as the soup lingered in his mouth, he began to see events before his time with unparalleled clarity. He saw the birth of the Cosmos, of its stars and galaxies, of star systems and planets and moons, and the birth of life itself. He swallowed the essence, for he was unable to bear the ever growing and overwhelming depth of the visions any further.
With a trembling hand, he dropped the wooden bowl on the ground.
'Certain pasts are too terrible to be remembered, 'She uttered to him in a tranquil voice.' Others are too important to be forgotten. Yours lies in the middle: a tragic past that fate has decided to remember, perhaps because it may lead to a brighter future.'
Despite beginning to feel deeply entranced, his voice was steady, 'There is no past more terrible than an empty present.'
When he opened his eyes and looked at Her, he felt surprised. Her skin had become tree bark and Her hair green strands of vine, and the delicate features of Her cinnamon face were of an unmatched beauty, paling in comparison only to the irresistible calling of Her deep green eyes. 
'We have tasted the essence of life. Soon, we will begin our journey. It is a journey we shall take together, through the untamable Tides of Fate. I shall be your guide and I shall do all within my power to help you remember.'
For a moment, there was a stony silence in the glade.
As he looked at her, waiting to see an image of his past, he was overtaken by a strange weakness that slowly overpowered him.
Startled, he saw that the forest around him had come to life. The vines began to creep towards him and when he looked down, he saw that the skin from his forearms was gradually becoming as brown and rugged as tree bark and his boots slowly sank into the ground, attracting vines that crept up his legs.
'Your body, my body,' he heard her soothing voice.
'What trickery is this?' he asked, unrest mounting in him as he tried to no effort to command his legs to move. The had become hard and solid as trees, rooted deep in the ground.
'You are becoming one with the forest, one with Me,' She answered calmly.
Her shape, once elderly and ethereal, had become the youthful and gracious embodiment of the forest and Her gray cloak dissolved into weightless red leaves that floated freely about Her bare body, which was undergoing the same change as his, gradually turning into solid wood.
'Your mind, my mind,' he heard her soothing whisper in his mind.
'This was not what I...' he uttered as his face turned into solid wood, his eyes the only part of his body that he could command.
He stared at her with astonished surprise, and as she stared back, both their eyes turned into bark, caught in an unmoving stare.
'Your soul, my soul.'

Time stood still that instant. As his body remained frozen, turned into wood, his consciousness was gently carried away to a distant quiet place. He felt far from himself, detached, alone. He closed his eyes. When he reopened them, he was immersed in an empty brightness, an eternal white in perfect harmony with the distant chanting of an unseen choir. It was all so calm, so tranquil and at peace. He felt free, and so he marveled at the melody and basked in the warmth that embraced him. Slowly, the boundless white was gradually filled with never-ending specks of colors, and as they floated through him, he heard indistinct voices, children's laughter. He had time to draw a smile before all the colors, all the voices and the laughter converged abruptly in front of him into one white light, one note, one single breath of time that ended in an immensurable collapse that delivered him to a complete and silent darkness.
A pure soothing voice broke the silence:
'By journeying through the Tides of Fate, we shall see the course of events through the memories of countless lives whose bodies have turned to dust. Stories that were left untold shall unravel themselves clearer than any recollection. We shall see who you were, and when you return, you will know who you are.'
'Awake now from your slumber and relive your past.'
'Awake!' said a voice, now in a demanding tone.

Part I - A long-expected Gathering

