The feeling that you had to help the girl was so strong, that you promptly rejected his claim. You were determined to ensure her safety and you go as far as to ignore every Directive, confront any droid and sacrifice your existence if you had to.
'There is nothing we can do, Alan,' he said.
A reasonable solution came to your mind, 'We hide her in the Shelter. The dispersion field that envelops the chamber prevents any scans from detecting her. If we hide her there, she will be untraceable by any known sensors, even Mother's.'
Haji allowed himself to reason with you to try and make you understand the helplessness of the situation. 'Considering we manage to get there, how do you suggest we gain entry to the facility?'
'If we get there, that won't be a problem,' you replied with confidence.
Your answer could only lead him to one conclusion. 'You know the override code to the maintenance entrance?'
'I do. I saw it two weeks ago when Brent typed it in the touchscreen.'
'Mother changes those codes every week, Alan,' he stated.
'At least we have to try!'
 Haji shook his head in dismay. 
'Considering she has not changed it, how are we supposed to get there?' he asked condescendingly. 'We are to succeed in carrying the girl without alerting our presence to Mother?' he said. Following his line of thoughts, his reasoning led him to the inevitable fact, 'Alan, we have no chance of success. Our best course of action is to leave the girl and present ourselves to Mother for peaceful arrest. There might still be a chance to avoid our banishment if we request the Council's pardon and submit to cognitive rehabilitation,' he added in a warm consoling way.
...protect her...that is all that matters...
You had followed the Council's Directives without any other choice for so many years, that you could not bear the thought of submitting yourself to their will any further, especially because you had done nothing wrong. Combined with that resentment, the desire to help the girl became so strong, that you knew beyond doubt what you had to do. You clenched your fists and spoke in a solemn voice, 'I will hide her in the Shelter. You should not come. This is my decision and I should face the consequences alone.'
You tone carried such resolve, that it imprinted itself on Haji's mind like an undeniable truth. He knew he would not make you see reason. 'You are willing to forfeit your citizenship for a girl you do not know?'
You gazed once more at the girl lying helplessly on the pavement. She seemed to be resting peacefully now.
'I will not let Mother have her.'
Haji knew he could not reason with you any longer. He let out a frustrated sigh, glanced into the cold darkness that surrounded him and was drawn once more to the grave notion that he had broken several of the most important Directives that night.
'Then, I will go with you,' he said.
Overwhelmed with guilt, your voice lost all its resolve and was now a helpless plea, 'Haji, no. You should return to your residence.'
'I would never leave you alone, troublemaker,' he replied with warm compassion. 'Besides, my help will improve your odds of success.'
...I remember now...the day I tried to encourage my colleagues to skip indoctrinations...he has the same look as when he faced the Overseers that came to arrest me...
He was but a young boy, yet he stood stubbornly between you and the two tall figures of authority, denying them passage.
'But we cannot allow Mother to find out the location of the Shelter. That would risk Brent's citizenship as well,' he added. 'I suspect that if we attempt to return to our residences we will be arrested. That leaves us with only one solution. We must activate the Signal Re-Route remotely.'
Activating the Signal Re-Route remotely could risk everything that Haji had planned for his future. Mother would notice the inconsistency in your location and once you were arrested, your units would be examined. It would be easy for any technician to see that they had been tampered with, and the consequences of that were beyond cognitive rehabilitation. All that would be left for him would be the ominous void of uncertainty.
'Done,' he said and looked at you with lively eyes.
You were disappointed with yourself for having cornered him into helping you and you felt as weary as a retired citizen. You gave him a frail smile from underneath your facemask and expanded your consciousness towards your Unit, focusing on conveying the thought of activating the Signal Re-Route.
'Done,' you said soberly. Then you lifted the girl into your arms. 'Let's go.'

...he risked his life to help me...
That is what a true friend does in times of need. But his actions were not entirely selfless. He found it deeply disturbing to see those menacing droids under Mother's command, and when he saw the girl wearing no Unit and seeming entirely unaffected by the Torment, he began to consider that the account of the missing Specialists had been a clever fabrication, forged to conceal what had really happened. It was an immensely disturbing thought for someone not accustomed to lies and deceit. He felt his trust in the Council was being put on trial and that finding out who the girl was would be the defining action that would allow him to trust them once more. Therefore, he helped you not only because he was worried about your safety, but also because he needed to know the truth.
