Tenth memory - The Gathering

''Love is that which gives us so many reasons to smile and at the same time too many reasons to cry.''

A passage from a recovered manuscript of the Antiga Pyre: Unknown Author;


Cathy's skyscraper was one of the nearest to the western shore of the Specialist Class Sector. After tidying up your residence, you and Haji headed off in that direction. Haji had suggested taking the Panoramic Highway, concerned that the snowstorm that had been forecasted would hit Darm sooner than anticipated, but what you had to say was best not to be heard by prying ears. So instead, after crossing the South Boulevard, you and Haji made your way down one of the long avenues, surrounded by imposing skyscrapers. Along the avenue, there were ventilation boxes that continuously spewed a warm flow of air into the streets, and hovering lamps that cast small circles of light on the white pavement. Mithras had begun setting on the horizon, slowly relinquishing the heavens to an ominous blanket of grey clouds that approached from the sea.
'It has to belong to the missing Specialists,' you said to Haji through your facemask's speaker.
'It could belong to anyone, Alan,' Haji answered. 'However, given that it is an unusual object, I would speculate that it could very well come from the Project Facility. By the look of it, it seems to be some sort of identification tag.'
'Then there's the symbol of infinity on the clasp,' you said, adding evidence to his reasoning. 'It must have a meaning of some sort.'
Haji replied with some disquiet, 'If the bracelet does belong to the missing Specialists, it is best that you deliver it to the D.S.D.. You were very fortunate that the sentinels did not find it when they scanned you, or you would be in trouble.'
Instead of feeling concerned, you mocked, 'Maybe they were so impressed by my hoverboard that they ended up overlooking it,' you said.
'That is unlikely,' Haji answered, unchanged by your attempt of humoring him. 'The most reasonable explanation is that they categorized it as a personal item.'
'Well, I am not returning it,' you retorted firmly.
'It was merely a prudent suggestion,' Haji replied and smiled, 'I did not think you would.'
Nearing Cathy's skyscraper, you shared a moment of silence.
'Did you know that the antigans had a different designation for the symbol of infinity?' he said out of impulse, for his mind had been giving continuity to the conversation.
'No, I didn't,' you answered inattentively, while you made plans to find out more about the bracelet after the Gathering.
'Well, they did. They named it lemniscate. I found the definition and its origin on an off-topic thread. It was not even in the Fundaments of Modelation segment.'
'How did you come across it?' you asked.
'By chance, when I was preparing a Fundaments of Modelation indoctrination,' Haji said innocently.
A few minutes later, you arrived at the skyscraper's anteroom, just as gentle snowflakes began leisurely descending from the gray sky. After crossing the curved permaglass door, elegantly decorated with imprinted depictions of Specialists in various activities, you removed your facemasks and took off your gloves. For a moment, you felt trapped inside the soundproof anteroom, between the falling snow and the impassable plasma barrier that blocked the access to the entry hall. You approached the touchscreen imbued next to the plasma barrier and waved your forearm near it. ''Access Granted'' flashed in green on the touchscreen and you crossed the harmless barrier for it had adjusted its frequency to match your body's frequency, allowing you and only you to traverse it.
Haji repeated the process, and soon both of you were inside a comfortably acclimatized round hall, tall and wide, and all but empty except for four columns separated at equal lengths from the center. The walls were made of pure gold , which reflected the bright light coming from a portentous crystal chandelier hanging from the golden ceiling. As was custom in all skyscrapers, you placed your boots, your gloves and your facemasks on the two small compartments that opened on the wall to the left and took two pairs of fluffy slippers from inside them.
'Comfy,' you said as you put on the slippers and felt them around your feet.
Haji smiled at you. 'They are. Even if the insulating properties of our exoderm are enough to keep us warm, they add an extra comfort to walking.'
'One more reason to become a Specialist,' you teased.
The compartments closed as you hovered your Units over its touchscreens. 
A few fluffy footsteps later, you were at the end of the lobby, facing the magtubes that would hurtle you to Cathy's suite.
'You go first,' you said with a look of aversion, as you stared inside the floorless tube.
Haji smirked at you, 'Still afraid of falling?' he teased.
'I am not afraid of falling!' you promptly grunted. 'I just don't like stepping into...nothingness.'
'You do know that the probability of falling is close to zero,' Haji explained before he himself stepped inside the tube. 'Even if there was a sudden power shortage the safety nets installed below every level would catch you.'
He had barely placed his two feet inside when he fell into the dark, wiggling his raised arms and yelling helplessly.
Blood drained from your cheeks and your eyes widened in panic. You were just about to jump in to try and rescue him when he slowly floated up, smiling at your terrified face, and then flew upwards.
'Ohhh...I will get you...' you said through clenched teeth before finally stepping in.

When you reached the right level, you jumped out of the magtube and found yourself next to Haji in a long narrow lobby veiled in darkness. Its dim lighting came from hidden lamps in the sides of the floor, whose soft beams climbed the golden walls and lit the ceiling. As you peered inside, you noticed the slender shape of two pyreas in strange clothing, chattering at the other end of the hall. You quickly concluded that they were finalists coated in animal attire.
One of them approached you. 
'You're here!' she said in a joyous voice.
You immediately recognized the voice, but Haji spoke first. 'Salutations, Cathy,' he said and bowed. 'I would never have recognized you with that animal attire.'
Cathy gave him a wide smile and slowly spun around herself. Her body was coated in short white fur, firmly adhered to her slender curves in such fashion that enhanced her sensuality. She had furry white tufts on her hands and feet and one on her lower back, and a pair of tall, folded ears springing from her curly red hair. Her gorgeous face was covered in white make-up, her lips glossy red, her nose black, and pairs of long whiskers sprang from her cheeks.
As you admired her from head to feet, you wanted to say how impressive she looked, but somehow, you had been rendered mute. She looked unusual yet striking, intensely compelling, irresistibly compelling. Without apparent reason, you felt an intense itching in your whole body, and you could not resist scratching yourself.
'Alan?' she asked, surprised by your odd gestures.
Haji elbowed you. 'Stop that,' he spoke with a sidelong glance.
'I can't. Sometimes I get a strong itchy feeling when I get out of a magtube,' you explained.
'It is a rare side-effect caused by the magnetic field that traverses through the Nervous System,' he said, looking at you sternly. 'It happens when the nervous system suffers a critical breakdown. You probably will turn into a puddle of organic matter soon.'
When your Unit did not signal that he was lying, you widened your eyes in terror.
'Of course, the probability of that happening is even lower than suffering injury by falling down a magtube,' he added with a sly smile.
You glared at him. 'I am so going to get you.'
Haji chuckled and then looked at Cathy. 'Are you not going to introduce us to your friend?' he said.
Cathy's friend had been silently watching the conversation, amusement filling her furry face.
'You don't recognize her?' Cathy asked.
Her attire looked even more exotic. Her body was coated in short amber fur sprinkled with round black dots; at the end of her smooth curvy back a long tail extended down her slender legs. Jutting from her auburn hair were two small round ears and the make-up on her face drew two dark strips that fell from her eyes down to her soft chin, granting her an appearance both stunning and wild. She drew out a long white smile that contrasted with her black nose and her amber glossed lips.
'I told you he would not recognize me,' she said with a soft subtle voice.
Haji gave her a stunned gaze. 'Sophie?'
Sophie giggled and nodded her feline head. Her green eyes shone at him with glamour.
For the first time, Haji was completely speechless. An undeniable realization awoke in him at that moment, and he knew beyond doubt that she was the girl he was going spend the rest of his existence with. 'I am at a loss for words to describe how remarkable you look, Sophie,' he said with some effort.
Sophie's bright brown eyes overflowed with happiness. 'If it were not for the make-up, you would see that I was blushing,' she said.
You felt the need to make amends for your stagnant staring and intervened with a somewhat similar comment. 'You don't look that bad either, Cathy,' you told her in a confident manner.
Cathy's joyous smile turned into an incredulous stare.
'Is that all you can say, Alan?' Sophie asked with amicable derision.
You shrunk under Cathy's increasing glower and began stuttering incomprehensibly, all the while thinking that it had been best if you had kept on smiling and scratching yourself, quietly.
'Do not feel disappointed Cathy,' said Haji. 'When Alan is impressed by something, he sometimes has bursts of inappropriate comments.'
'He's bursting, alright,' she said, her arms crossed and sneering at you. 'With silliness.'
You stopped scratching yourself. 'I am so, so, so gonna get you,' you whispered close to Haji ear. Then you looked at Cathy and spoke courteously, 'My apologies, Cathy. I meant to say you look as remarkable as Sophie, if not more.'
Cathy forced a smile. 'That sounds better,' then she pointed to a sliding door to the right. 'Now that Sophie and I have been properly complimented, head to the printing device and put on your animal attires. Other people are arriving.'
She had just finished speaking when the magtube announced the arrival of two more guests with a soft tune.
After bowing you both followed through the door, entering a wide and well lit room, the suite's coatroom, and found the device at the center standing on a round base with two steps. It was a tall transparent cylinder, much like an incubation tank. The touchpanel was above a small station next to the door and was waiting for input.
'An actual printing device,' you said as you slid your hand across the device's transparent door. 'I wonder how many credits it cost.'
'Being under the care of Specialists has its advantages,' Haji stated without any ill intention.
You and Haji removed your uniforms, leaving nothing but the dark-gray exoderm on your skin, and placed them on an opened wardrobe imbued in the wall, with green jackets and pants hanging on hooks. Once the hooks felt your uniforms, they receded inside the wardrobe before it closed, leaving a flat wall in its place.
'You can go first,' Haji said.
'No, no. You first,' you answered as you rushed ahead and took the place in front of the station.
Haji smiled and hopped in, closing the door behind. 
Looking at the touchscreen, you dragged your fingers through the attire menu and when you found Haji's Linx pardinus you nodded at him. The thought of getting even with him by tampering with the printing device crossed your mind, but after carefully checking the device's status you started the coating process without changing its specifications, thinking no amount of retribution would justify ruining your best friend's Gathering. 
Haji closed his eyes and stood still, as the chamber was filled with water vapor; then, a metallic ring filled with countless miniscule nozzles descended from its ceiling which began to spray his body with layers and layers of a silicon-based gel in an up and down cycle. You watched his transformation, as he was slowly coated in layers that thickened with each passing of the ring. His face was equally changing, becoming masked by layers of silicon apart from his eyes and lips, which had been previously covered by a protective film.
When the process was complete, the ring bathed him in a hardening layer that solidified the silicone gel to the point of becoming rugged and furry, before a spray of multi-colored ink tinged him until he became like a furry brown animal splattered with black patches. It took a little more than five minutes before the last step started. The ring withdrew into the ceiling and a gust of air coming from fans in the floor blew away any residual substances and dried the ink in place. A sharp ding! announced that the process was complete, and the door was opened. 
When Haji stepped out of the chamber, he looked similar in every way to the Lynx pardinus image displayed on the touchscreen, apart from his graceless walk. Had you not seen the process happen before your eyes and you would have never recognized your best friend if he were to walk up to you unannounced.
'You look just like it!' you said.
Haji looked at himself in the mirrored wall, turning from one side to the other, seeing his long brown tail with a dark tuft at the end. He picked it up with his right paw and felt its fluffy fur; then he patted the ruffs of fur falling from the sides of his chin and smiled.
'Remarkable,' he said as he gazed at his feline face, his dark nose, and tufted ears.
'My turn!' you said and eagerly entered the device.
When Haji selected Ailuropoda melanoleuca and pressed the initiate command, a flashing red light lit inside the chamber. You gently closed your eyes before you were engulfed by a warm and odorless water vapor. As you stood very still, the makeover cycle began anew and worked the same way it did with Haji, only this time it took longer to finish, much longer. The build of your animal was large and bulky, and many more layers of silicon had to be added to complete it. Your legs and arms swelled and swelled to three times their thickness and your chest and head became chubbier. When the hardening and coloring layer was applied and the blowing air subsided, the door opened, and you emerged from inside the cylinder. You were so large that you were barely able to cross the narrow opening with your black and white pelt.
Haji was widening a merry smile. 'You have put on some mass,' he said.
'I can feel it,' you answered and gave him a chubby smile back.
You examined yourself in the mirror. Your chest and head were coated in white fur while your arms and legs were coated in black. A pair of dark tufted ears that seemed more like fluffy lumps had sprung from atop your forehead and your eyes were encircled in black rings of fur. You were just like as you had imagined, and you felt it a well-deserved reward for putting so much effort into creating the procedures for the attires.
'We are ready,' you told Haji and gave him a feral grin.
'Without question,' he said and grinned back.

