'Alan, it is your turn,' Cathy whispered.
You sighed in dismay.
'Do I really have to? I'm not so good at speaking to an audience.'
'Come on, troublemaker,' Haji whispered from your right side. 'It is what you do best.'
You got up reluctantly and stepped onto the podium, one bulky black leg after the other. At first you were a little intimidated, especially by the blank unflinching stare the Acolytes gave you. Then, as you looked at the nearly one thousand finalists staring back at you, a queasy sensation threw you off balance. Your puffy head wobbled, your limbs felt heavy, and you had trouble just to keep your balance on the metallic podium. To make matters worse, you realized that watching you at that very moment was the apprentice that would be your companion for the rest of your existence. You knew you had to do your best to impress her and even if you did not feel well standing there, you fervently renounced the thought of climbing down without first presenting your animal.
...belief empowers...
You gathered your courage, cast aside all negative thoughts, and focused solely on what you had learned from the Historic Records:
'The Ailuropoda melanoleuca,' you began in an insecure yet audible voice, 'was the term designated to a peculiar kind of animal that was found in a specific region of the Central Continent. Despite possessing a digestive system adapted to a carnivorous diet, no remains were found inside their digestive tract other than a specific vegetable, which led Specialists to believe they were uniquely adapted to a region where they inhabited for millions of years,' you finished the paragraph with a deep relaxing breath. 'Study of their neo-cortex suggests that they were harmless and solitary, however somewhat territorial, and it is believed that due to these traits, they were respected and admired by our ancestors. Evidence from recovered sub-fossils is not conclusive as to the cause of their extinction. Sedimentary analysis reveals that they survived the Open Hunt. However, it is likely that their numbers dwindled due to starvation, as their source for food disappeared during the lowering of the global temperature,' you finished and bowed hastily, your puffy paws hanging at your sides.
'Why did you pick it?' Cathy asked abruptly, trying to rouse your somber speech.
You wobbled on the stage and glanced outside the window-wall, trying to find the answer written on the dispersed flakes of falling snow. An almost irresistible desire to flee made you wonder how resilient the permaglass window was and if it would break if you threw yourself at it, and you went as far as to speculate whether it would shatter or leave behind the silhouette of your fleeing body if you did. You chuckled to yourself, amused by that thought, skimmed your chest with both paws and answered plainly, 'I chose it because it was a peaceful and friendly animal, but at the same time great and strong.'
'Well, it suits you very well,' Cathy added and smiled.
A group of female apprentices giggled behind her. Cathy looked back and giggled with them, and as you climbed down from the stage you heard some finalists amongst the crowd murmuring ''Cathy and Alan.''
You sat once more next to Cathy, who smiled at you with a soft yet intense gentleness.
'You did well, troublemaker,' Haji said, sitting at your right.
The rest of the individual presentations proceeded to the solemn formality of each finalist's speech. From time to time, one or another apprentice would stand up from the audience to grab some geometric appetizers from the trays, which were becoming disturbingly empty as the last apprentices presented their animals. The final twenty were from class #50 and amongst them, there was one Troglodites gorilla coated in black fur, with black hairless face and hands, followed by an Equus zebra, whose black and white stripes befuddled many spectators, one female Panthera onca with a dazzling black pelt and deep dark eyes, and lastly, a Canis lupus with a grey fur, keen eyes, sharp ears and even sharper voice.
When everyone had presented their animals, Cathy stepped onto the stage: 
'Now that we have concluded our individual presentations, we will move to the most important part of the evening: selecting a companion. I do not think I need to explain to any of you what to do, - many apprentices smiled eagerly - so you may stand up and find yourselves someone to share your residence with!'
At the sound of those words, the one thousand apprentices stood up hastily and started to form groups and groups of mixed genders. The stage was lowered back to floor level and the portion of the hall adjacent to the permaglass wall slid outwards, forming a gigantic circle shaped balcony amidst the middle floors of the tall, round skyscraper. Many groups decided to stay behind the plasma field that was raised to insulate the balcony from the rest of the hall, while others decided to step outside and chat, under the cover of a roof that had extended outwards. 
As the hours passed, the evening turned into a cold quiet night. Those who the Gathering had served its purpose started to leave, and pair by pair, Cathy's suite became less and less crowded. The groups that remained slowly became scattered about the hall, standing around tables and having conversations on the balcony, while dismay was starting to show on the faces of those alone, leaning on walls or lolling restlessly on puffs. Their dismay was justifiable, for if they could not find a suitable companion, Mother would randomly select one from the remaining finalists in that same hall.
Although you were aware of that, you made no attempt to find a companion throughout the rest of the evening. You thought about talking to Cathy. You had been good friends with her for many years, and you knew that she was the most appropriate companion for you, but seeing that it was such an important decision, you were still unsure whether to propose to her or not. So, instead of looking for her, you remained on the balcony with Haji, leaning on the long metallic railing and gazing down at the endless darkness of the Sea of Tranquility. Straight down, you could see the Coastal Walkway, its pavement lit in little white circles of light that illuminated the scattered benches and ventilation boxes. 
Haji would pause between the conversation to exhale blasts of warm breath into the freezing air and watch it crystallize into snowflakes that would then scatter into the air. It was a habit he had acquired from you. Every time he did, he found it intriguing that the crystallization process would occur so fast and merely from the water vapor exhaled from his lungs. He had precise knowledge of the process required for snowflakes to form, and in no way were the conditions required ever met. To that day he could not find a reasonable explanation for it, but he found that envisioning a likely explanation, that he then could put to test, was as an entertaining exercise for his brain as was watching them form and scatter.
'It has a sense of irony to it,' he spoke, concluding an unspoken line of thought.
'What does?' you asked absentmindedly, watching the eidetic memory of Cathy's presentation, which you had stored in your Unit and now conveyed into your mind.
With eyes cast upon the scattering snow, Haji explained in a fascinated voice, 'Water is the fundamental molecule of existence. We are mostly composed of it, and without it, Artica would have been unsuitable for any known organism to inhabit it, including us. Still, if we were to drink copious amounts of it in a short time interval, it would poison us and we would cease to exist.'
The image of Cathy's glossy red smile disintegrated from your field of view.
'It is ironic,' he repeated, 'we cannot exist without it, but if we have too much of it, it becomes a poisonous substance.'
