It was not long before you were lost in the dark, quiet maze of towers, and neither Boulevard nor plasma barrier could be seen. Howling above you, were furious gusts of frozen air being sucked into the air inlets of the tall towers, whose beacons of light at the top faintly lit your way. The wind was relentless, and even though it was not strong enough to pull you into the air inlets, it was strong enough to hinder your movements significantly. So, you trudged on with great effort, towards where, you did not know.
'We will never find anything in this storm,' you heard Haji's calm voice in your mind as a freezing wind raged through you, throwing you off balance.
You could not disagree with him. Not only were you unable to see anything further than two meters ahead, but the idea of being attacked without any warning by a specialist suffering one of the manifestations presented to you in Fundaments of Existence was starting to make you feel nervous.
'A few more minutes and we leave,' you conveyed the thought to him, more to reassure yourself.
Suddenly, a shrill cry broke through the wailing wind. Were it a scream you could not say, but its haunted echo carried an ominous feeling. 
You froze in place, peering into the darkness between the towers to your left.
'Did you hear that?' you conveyed the thought to Haji.
'It seems to have come from there,' Haji's voice answered as he pointed into the dark labyrinth of towers. His next thought came with unease, 'Alan, we should leave.'
The feeling that you were endangering not only your existence, but the existence of your best friend finally became too much to ignore. 'All right. You're right. Let's go back,' you answered, and started heading towards Haji, who was just a few meters behind you.
Just as you were about to reach Haji, something big hit you with such strength, that your facemask flew off your face and you were thrown to the metallic pavement. The connection you had established with Haji was immediately severed as an overwhelming dizziness engulfed your every thought.
Haji ran to you and kneeled. 'What happened?' he asked aloud, his voice greatly amplified by the facemask's speaker.
It felt like you had been run over by a speeding glider. Your head was spinning around so frantically that you had to shut your eyes and lay very still just to avoid losing consciousness. 'Something big hit me,' you answered through clenched teeth.
He quieted himself and focused on his surroundings, but heard nothing except the wind raging through his raised hood.
Haji looked around nervously, but saw nothing except the dark shadows of the intake towers.
Then, to his surprise, three meters away from him, a body lying on the metallic pavement crackled into sight, steaming with water vapor. It wore a slim white exoderm with a belt and a lowered white hood covered its face.
'A Specialist,' Haji cried, even though he could not see more than a white figure.
When the figure would not stand up, he approached it cautiously.
'He seems unconscious,' he shouted through the gale between you.
You risked opening your eyes a little bit to look at him, but without the facemask, the freezing gale stung your eyes. 'Help me get up,' you shouted back.
Haji walked up to you, wrapped his arm around your back and helped you stand up as fast as you could manage. You head throbbed painfully, and the haziness you felt warned you that anything short of walking would send you back to the ground. Fighting the strong wind, you picked up your facemask, and after attaching it to your cold numb face you dragged your feet towards her and knelt next to Haji.
Haji pulled back the white exoderm on the figure's slender left forearm. 'He is not wearing any Unit,' he said after examining his forearm. 'He has to be one of the missing Specialists.'
As you admired the soft angular chin beneath the lowered hood, you felt a sudden desire to pull the hood back.
It was her. 
Your eyes widened in awe when you saw how beautiful her cool pale face was. Even more surprising was her hair, white as unspoiled snow, and it shimmered as snow does when the soft rays of morning hours gleam upon its frozen surface.
...I know her face...
This was when you saw her for the first time. Time seemed to stop, and the wind and towers faded into forgetfulness, as you lost yourself admiring her beautiful face. As you laid your eyes upon her, you had the strange feeling that you had seen her before, as if she were someone dear to you, someone you knew for a long time.
'I know her face,' you said in an awe-stricken tone.
'I am notifying Mother,' Haji shouted.
...stop him...
You shook your head, regaining your awareness.
