Forgive me. I shall resume. However, this subject was not as meaningless as you might consider. Within it, was an understanding to the Torment which no one except Gadim was able to fully grasp. He saw the retrovirus in its entirety, and he saw how it corrupted life, turning your kind into something that I never intended you to be.
The mentor turned to the window-wall and interacted with it, using the neurolink that rested comfortably on her right ear. The view of the Academy's inner plaza was replaced by an opaque screen of information related to the Fundaments of Existence doctrine, whose seemingly endless topics filled the wall from top to bottom. Using Thought Interaction, she accessed the topic ''PIn-S2'' and then the sub-topic ''Epidemiology''.
On the screen were displayed several images demonstrating a sequence of the infection process of the retrovirus. In one of the images, the macromolecule seemed to be in interaction with an isolated eukaryotic cell; in another was plainly visible the strand of nucleotides that Heidi had described. The images seemed to be divided in four stages and the mentor began to explain the first stage, mentioning with approval the common points that her apprentices had presented. Arriving at the second stage, she sat behind her desk and continued:
'On the second stage of incubation, we can see that the affected cells of the organism now comprise over seventy percent of the cell population, with a prevalence of approximately thirty percent on the bone tissue. In this stage, the group of signs and symptoms were still inexistent or unspecific. Consequently, it was still not possible to ascertain without clinical trial whether an organism was infected or not.'
Her soft voice was so alluring that you followed her every move and every word, from her calm gestures pointing towards the three-dimensional images, to her occasional pauses to assess whether she could continue or whether she had to explain once more.
'On entering the third stage, the incubation had successfully reached the point of irreversibility, and any attempt to eradicate the retrovirus resulted in the destruction of its host. This irreversibility is one of the two reasons why this pathogen was so effective at spreading throughout the globalized societies of the antigans. The other reason was that the host was already infectious during the incubation process, meaning that the retrovirus was free to replicate itself and spread to new hosts without any signs of infection being displayed by the carrier.'
After mentor Elias highlighted the last stage of the incubation process, the screen reproduced an animation of the retrovirus neutralizing the cell's defenses and attaching itself to a DNA strand. Its effectiveness was both admirable and disturbing.
She pointed one finger to a segment of the altered DNA, 'Once fully lodged inside the still asymptomatic host, the viral RNA strand migrated from the cells' nucleus to the cells' mitochondria, lodging itself in the DNA of this structure. The incision of the vRNA in the cell mitochondria caused a chain mutation of mitochondrial DNA, creating a pattern with a specific codon sequence known to be the Torment trigger sequence. The mitochondria's more resistant RNA molecules were unable as well to prevent this mutation due to the hypersecretion of oxygen reactive composites by the retrovirus, which neutralized any attempt to repair the damaged DNA strands. When the fourth stage was complete, the mitochondrial DNA became viral, triggering the start of an irreversible chain reaction,' said the mentor, pointing to the schematics where the viral RNA performed an alteration of the mitochondrial DNA. 'The first of our Guiding Father's accomplishments, was to discover that the transition from the incubation phase to the Torment phase followed a chain recoding of the DNA that would only commence once the mitochondria population of the host was entirely contaminated, which means that the Torment phase would wait until the incubation phase had been completed,' she said and waited for the apprentices to finish their annotations. 'There are no accurate predictions of the time span of the incubation phase, but models run by Mother suggest that this process lasted for twenty to thirty years, and we now know that this viral RNA was also able to infect the host's gametes during meiosis, meaning that any offspring would be equally infected. This was one of our Guiding Father's most important discoveries, as it allowed us to entirely understand the cause of the extinction of the Antiga Pyre. It is believed that once an offspring from an infected antigan attempted to breed with a non-infected antigan, the result would be an infertile hybrid. This means that throughout the Age of Obscurity, as all the surviving populations became infected, the Antiga Pyre withered away and eventually became extinct.'
She granted the apprentices some time to convey into their neuropads what she had said. Then, she added, answering to some keen eyes, 'This is one of the reasons why all darmians are fertilized and bred in controlled laboratory conditions and then appointed to caretakers. However, it is still a futile effort to reverse our offspring's genetic code to that of our ancestors. It may even prove impossible, since the original code was lost when the antigans became extinct.'
You raised your hand, as much out of curiosity as to grab her attention. When she nodded to you, you asked, 'Why were the antigans unable to remove the genetic flaw from their gene pool. Were they unable to use genetic programming?'
'That is a good question, apprentice Balthazar,' she answered as you welcomed her tender gaze. 'They were aware of genetic programming, but not even that was enough to stop the virus. The reason is that the retrovirus did not perform a linear mutation of the Antiga Pyre's DNA. Instead, it unevenly spread throughout their genetic code in small and very discrete codon sequences, some of them redundant, others self-reconstructive, and others seemingly normal, yet all interlinked through a process that was only discovered by the Guiding Father, after their extinction.'
'That was one smart germ!' Jack allowed himself to shout.
The class erupted in a half-suppressed laughter.
Mentor Elias calmly gazed at him, 'It was indeed, apprentice Thompson, and that is why it was successful in leading an entire species to self-extinction. You should have some respect for it, and for our ancestors.'
One by one, the apprentices quieted down, gazing at the mentor in solemn contemplation.
'My apologies, mentor Elias. I did not mean to disrespect them,' Jack spoke embarrassedly to the silent room.
'Apology accepted,' she said, throwing him a courteous smile.
