Seventh memory - Mother

''When I authorized Miriam to breed the descendant, I did so under the condition that Alan Balthazar were to reside alone and be deprived of any primary socialization for his isolation was indispensable for the Project. It was for that reason as well that to him alone I granted the freedom to reprogram his host and gave him full access to Mother, even if for him it would seem granted through the guise of deception. It was perhaps out of whim, perhaps out of carelessness towards the higher order of causality, that to him alone I granted also the chance to keep his Affection Support Droid beyond his infanthood.''

An excerpt rescued from the final diary of Gadim: Regarding Alan Balthazar's early life;


That night, you spent Dinner Time in Haji's residence. Once you arrived at the front entrance, the welcoming was short, and it was not long afterward that the four of you were sitting at the dining room table.
'Dinner is served,' announced Haji's female caretaker, setting a pan drenched with condensation on the table. She opened the pan, and a dense cloud of vapor filled the room, 'Nutrients salad with sweet sauce, your favorite, Haji.'
Haji's hungry eyes widened once the steam scattered from inside the pan, revealing a colorful assortment of jelly cubes dipped in sauce. Once you had all served your plates, you ate and drank in silence. Haji's caretakers were middle-aged darmians. They were both quiet and composed: the female a gentle-looking pyrea with dark-brown eyes and ash-brown hair; the male a surly pyrean of pale skin-tone with short dark-brown hair and soft hazel eyes. They belonged to the twenty fifth generation of darmians and were currently completing their final year as citizens. At the end of the year, they would be granted their Honorable Retirement and given passage to the Isle of Retirement, where they would spend the rest of their existence.
Once you were done eating, you had a somber and unsmiling conversation with them. You talked about the latest indoctrinations at the Academy, shared your disquiet about becoming a citizen and managed to ask some questions about their occupations. The male caretaker was one of the many spaceport administrators whose task was to perform maintenance on the shuttles that transported cargo and personnel to the Vanguard and Renaissance research stations established on the lunoids, while the female was one of the Darmian Support Center administrators, whose task was to ensure the delivery of the daily orders performed by every darmians. Despite your curiosity in learning more, neither one of them seemed interested to talk about the more specific details of their occupations, rather taking turns in glancing discretely at the sofa in the living room. When you ran out questions - much to their relief - they got up from the table only to sit on the sofa while you and Haji took the dishes, forks, cups and pans to the appliances room .
After clearing the table, you followed Haji towards the sofa. You considered sitting next to Haji's caretakers, but their dullness was beginning to make you sleepy, so you stopped before them and said politely, 'With your leave, I will be returning to my residence.'
'So soon?' Haji asked.
Your fingers drummed on the end-table next to the sofa as you tried to find a convenient excuse. When none came, you confessed, 'I want to learn more about what mentor Elias said regarding the Torment before I rest.'
Haji realized your discomfort and gave you an understanding smile, 'Very well,' he said. 'I will see you out.'
'Have a pleasant evening, apprentice Balthazar,' Haji's caretakers added, giving you an absent nod.
After Haji walked you to the door and bade you a pleasant Sleep Time, you allowed the lashing cold of the night lead you to your residence, and the warm embrace of your residence lead you to your bedroom.
