As you listened, you could not help but feel frustrated that the gastians had the liberty to entertain themselves without any supervision, while darmians could not even have a formal event in a private suite without the Council of Mentalists prying into it. You put down your vitamin shake and before you gave it any thought you complained, 'This isn't right. The Council treats us like we're still infants. We can't even celebrate our turn to citizenship without having to be supervised?'
The answer came from Sophie, 'Alan, Mentalist Silas is opening an unprecedented exception. In return, all he asks is that our Gathering be supervised. What more do you ask?'
Cathy added kindly, 'It is only understandable, Alan. Mentalist Silas will appoint Overseers simply to ensure our safety. Our Guiding Father is a great visionary who created this metropolis to help the Pyre and the Mentalists are doing a remarkable effort in maintaining it in order.'
Sophie scolded, 'And if you had been more attentive to Demography and History doctrines you would know that every pyrean outside Darm is struggling for their mere survival against the Torment and against the harsh environmental conditions. Our Guiding Father has saved us from all this.'
...ignorant trusting fools...
You knew for a fact that, for the very least, Remgast was a place where neither the Pyre's genetic flaw nor the freezing temperatures stopped them from having a joyous existence. You looked at Haji's concerned gaze, knowing he was worried that you would lose your temper and tell them what you had been doing that afternoon. But he needed not worry - you would not be so reckless - but you would not sit by either, when your friends were being deceived, 'Everything they tell us in those doctrines serves to make us believe that Darm is the only place on Artica that is unaffected by the Torment,' you said. 'How can you accept their word without searching for proof?'
Sitting between you and Sophie, Haji quietly listened to your argument, realizing that he would soon have to pick sides between the two darmians he cared for the most.
'We are given have all the proof we need,' Sophie intervened, staring at you harshly. 'And I think the only reason you are so suspicious about the Council of Mentalists is because you blame them for not having two caretakers. And you spend so much time alone in your residence that you feel the need to go out and breach the Directives just so you feel better. But the worst part is that you take Haji with you,' she added in a bitter tone.
You turned your eyes to the soothing sea and fell into a brooding silence. Sophie had spoken her heart much out of concern for the well-being of Haji, you knew, but you could not help but feel that she was right. You were filled by an overwhelming sadness, and even though you were surrounded by your friends, you felt alone.
Realizing she had said more than she needed to prove her point, Sophie broke the silence, 'Alan, my apologies. I did not mean to say that.' she said, and her voice sounded as remorseful as the look in her eyes.
You allowed a sad smile to brighten your face, 'It's okay Sophie. I know you worry for Haji's sake,' you said, and a feeling of joy washed away your sadness when you remembered a comforting fact, 'besides, I don't live alone. I have Evander and Hampy to keep me company.'
Jack looked sideways at Cathy, 'An overzealous host and an outdated droid are hardly any company,' he murmured audibly and snickered.
Cathy stomped his foot under the table, 'It is a lot better than having you as a friend!'
You were starting to feel uncomfortable and wanted to move the spotlight that had fallen upon you, 'But you're right Sophie, when you say I shouldn't involve Haji.'
Haji widened his eyes at you, anticipating what you were going to say. He knew you too well.
'However,' you added, grinning at him wickedly. 'I do think he is entitled to an opinion.'
Haji looked down and shrank in his seat, hoping the conversation would fade into thoughtless remarks.
'You are right Alan,' said Sophie, a shrewd look in her eyes. 'What is your opinion, Haji?' 
Haji opened his mouth as if to speak but stopped. He did not want to pick sides, for he knew that if he did, his action would reinforce one relationship in detriment of the other. So, he glanced around, saw the restless look in Cathy's face, and hastily crafted a solution that would allow him to dodge the question - assuming Cathy would intervene as he expected her to.
'Well...in my opinion... - you and Sophie looked at him expectantly - I think being supervised by Overseers will do just fine.'
'Precisely!' Cathy stepped in, throwing a finger in the air. 'Thank you, Haji!'
He breathed a sigh of relief, as Sophie frowned at him and you looked away, into the virtual sea that surrounded the booth.
'I am glad I finally had an opportunity to step in,' Cathy added. 'This discussion was making me feel really uncomfortable. You two should know best not to have this kind of conversation. Dissent is a violation of the Prime Directive.'
'My apologies, Cathy. You are absolutely correct,' Sophie answered.
'We have completely diverted from our topic and needlessly allowed ourselves to upset one another. Alan?' Cathy called you.
You were distracted, listening to the sound of the waves crashing into the beach and thinking about what Sophie had said. When you heard her, you gave her a weary absent look, 'My apologies, Cathy. Go on.'
'Now, let's continue planning the Gathering,' she added.
'Let's do it!' said Jack, slapping his hands on the table and bouncing on the seat, catching everyone by surprise. 'We have a Gathering to prepare. And it is going to be fantastic!'
Cathy had previously arranged a list of tasks she intended to divide amongst her friends in accordance with the knowledge each possessed. She took her neuropad from her utility belt and unrolled it on the table.
'Alan and Haji, I need you to create the printing device's procedures for the props that will be decorating the suite and the costumes we will be wearing,' she said.
You nodded absentmindedly and turned your attention to the blue sea. Haji, however, in his eagerness for solving every complex situation he was confronted with, quickly began drawing a mental sketch of the instructions required to insert into the device that would print out the props and costumes in full color and shape.
'Jacky, have you spoken to your caretaker about the appetizers?' Cathy asked next.
Jack stretched his arm around her and released his huge glinting smile, 'Obviously. The appetizers are being created in the Second Quadrant Manufacturing Facility, where they will be stored and await the day they shall merrily journey into your delightful mouth.'
She pulled his arm away, 'Charming.' Then she turned her attention to Sophie, 'In that case all that remains is our part: choosing the theme.'
'I think Tropical is the best choice,' Sophie risked the suggestion, pouting her lips.
'Oh no! No more Tropical!' said Cathy.
'But it's so pleasant, so warm and so full of light! It's how the Island of Retirement must look like,' she said and turned her eyes to the tranquil beach behind Cathy and Jack.
'You will have plenty of time to stay on the island after you fulfill your goals as a citizen. Retirement is still one too many decades away,' said Cathy. 'I was thinking of a more intriguing theme: the animals from the Age of the Antiga Pyre. I've been to the Historic Records this afternoon and I browsed through some of the species. They were fascinating,' she added, her amber eyes staring blankly at the blue sky, 'quite fascinating.'
You and your friends shared a dull stare. 
As Cathy and Sophie chattered between themselves about which theme was the best, you had a calm conversation with Haji and Jack. Twice Jack interrupted their conversation to offer an uninformed opinion, mostly suggestions of sleazy costumes for the female apprentices.
'Why do you spend time choosing a theme?' he said slyly after they dismissed his suggestions countless times. 'Simple and light garments would do fine and are far less cumbersome. Why put so much thought into it?'
They utterly ignored him.

Sophie's initial disappointment regarding Cathy's choice had turned into eager anticipation, as Cathy explained to her some of her ideas for the costumes. After a tiresome hour, they had finally decided on the theme. Then, they moved on to the selection of the props for the suite, and as their conversation prolonged, you became increasingly drowsy. You started to insist on leaving, lightly elbowing Haji, who in turn elbowed you back. Jack was snoring already, his head lying on the back of the seat and a thin line of saliva dripping down the red coating from his partly opened mouth. Cathy and Sophie were still tirelessly discussing the theme, when Colt announced, with the precision of a clock, that the time had come to close the establishment. You thanked the moment. 
When you left the Retreat alongside your friends, you guided your weary feet upon the snow-laden Coastal Walkway, whose path faded into the night. Beyond, was the vast darkness of the sea, whose frozen waters already slept quietly.
Cathy and Jack bid their leave and climbed onto a platform, catching the Panoramic Way to the tall skyscrapers of the Specialist Class Sector. You and your remaining friends followed down the East Boulevard until entering one of the main roads of the Administrator Class Sector. After bowing and wishing them a pleasant evening, you turned to your street and pursued your path towards a good night's rest. Haji and Sophie lived on the same block of residences, and so they trudged down their street together, chatting quietly.
Each block was composed of an agglomerate of adjunct residences. They were identical in every aspect, something that usually confused you when returning to your residence at night. Were it not for your own personalized front entrance, and you would have skipped it, as you walked down the street. Even with the dim light coming from the streetlamps, you managed to perceive an untended patio that had disappeared under a meter of snow along with its chairs and table. You pushed the knee-height gate aside and stepped inside, dragging your legs through the snow. Beneath your narrow porch you glanced at the tidy terrace from the adjacent residence, the Sylvere's residence, and grimaced.
You looked at the silvery lunoids above, 'I hope Miriam can't see this from above,' you whispered, sighed, and entered.

The day had ended, and so you lied in bed and slept. And in due time, for Sleep Time had fallen upon Darm and every darmian was required to rest. So, rest you did, unaware that you had woven one more thread into the fabric of destiny that would lead you to where you stand now. I cannot help but wonder. If you had known the consequences, would you have still fallen asleep during that History indoctrination? Or answered to mentor Levine the way you did?
...I do not regret my actions...
Indeed you do not, for now...
