Sixth memory - Tales of the long departed

[...] leading me to conclude that instinct and emotion became the never-ending source for all the tragedy that befell the Antiga Pyre. Further experimental research performed on infants nurtured in simulated wildlife environments revealed behaviors that in some cases surpassed even the savagery of animals, whereas the control group, when deprived from any other contact with nature, had their instincts and emotions rendered latent. This outcome could be explained by the biological affinity that we have to these animals, namely the mammals. Even though not all fauna and flora were extinct during the Age of Obscurity, it is highly recommended that darmians be kept isolated from the surviving species and the only information available regarding this matter be related to the extinct species that once co-existed with us. Furthermore, they should be known to darmians only as animals and each should be named by their scientific nomenclature, a contingency that shall uphold a sense of singularity of the pyrean species and possibly instill in them a sense of alienation that will extinguish any affinities for animals that may arise. Regardless of the outcome, I recommend continuing the research in the field of genetic remapping and attempt to remove instinct and emotion and every other genetic fault from the Pyre gene pool altogether. Although most of the first experiments were unsuccessful, some failed specimen revealed significant improvements.

An excerpt from Annex #9: On biological seclusion; 
Division of Darmian Affairs under the authority of Mentalist Silas;


With Lunch Time upon Darm, the vast mess hall of the tenth floor of the Academy was immersed in the warm fragrance of food. The large, curved window-wall opposite the entrance allowed Mithras to shine its light upon the multitude of green uniforms. The apprentices sat, chatted and chewed, smiled at each other and scraped the remainders of food from their dishes. Their lunches were being handed to them by an extensive line of food generators on top of metallic counters, which were located on the edges of the curved hall. 
After ordering and collecting the food trays, your group sat together at the only table in the mess hall: an enormous U-shaped table that extended from one edge of the hall to the other. Resting on the table in front of you, on a round metal plate, was your meal as you ordered it: a blue carbohydrates jelly cube, a colorful emulsion of mineral, a triangular prism of fibers, and a sliced brown cylinder of complementary nutrients. On a cup next to your plate was your favorite drink, a sweet and sour vitamin shake. Altogether, they comprised a third of your daily dosage of nutrients, as was determined by your Unit's health monitoring module.
While everyone enjoyed their meal, Cathy grabbed the opportunity to learn about the preparations for the Gathering:
'How are the procedures for the printing device coming along?' she asked you and Haji, with a hint of concern.
'They are practically finished,' Haji answered, sitting at your side. 'All that is left to do is run a simulation to correct any errors, which I will be doing this evening. I believe you are going to find the animal costumes quite appealing, but you really must congratulate Alan for the designs. He wrote the instructions for the animal costumes by himself.'
Cathy smiled at you from across the table, her eyes glittering with satisfaction, 'Excellent!' Cathy applauded. 'The preparations are coming along as we expected.'
'It is excellent indeed!' said Sophie, sitting next to Cathy. 'I was beginning to worry that we were going to have to postpone the Gathering due to mentor Levine's bonus presentation. We might owe everything to your efforts Alan.'
Instead of doing research for the presentation, you found that working on the instructions for the animal costumes was the best way to spend your Rest Time. Now, you felt comforted in knowing that you had helped all finalists, and you saw it as an amends for all the trouble you had caused to many of them due to your several misguided conducts throughout apprenticeship.
'It was my pleasure,' you answered with a smile.
'Moving on,' continued Cathy, 'it was the unanimous decision of all finalists that each of us will select one animal and present it one by one. The selection will be done according to the Standings' - you hung your head in disappointment - 'but, the organizers take priority over everyone else.'
'I've already chosen mine,' you promptly announced.
'I have already chosen mine as well,' Haji added.
Sophie and Cathy stared with surprise at each other. 
'And which was your choice?' Cathy asked you, a look of curiosity on her face.
Your words came out in a blend of simplicity and reverence, revealing your admiration for the animal, 'Ailuropoda melanoleuca.'
Jack gave you a dumbfounded stare, 'What is that?'
'Ailuropoda melanoleuca is the designation given to a peculiar animal. Traces of its existence were found on the oriental borders of the East Continent,' explained Cathy.
'And what makes it so peculiar?' asked Jack.
Sophie answered, 'Well, besides having a furry and adorable look, it is believed that though it shared an affinity with predators, it fed exclusively on a unique vegetable and was very affable.'
'Did you pick him because it reflects your personality?' Cathy teased.
You flushed and took a spoonful of fibers to your mouth just so you did not have to answer.
Sophie's curiosity was not yet sated, so she took the opportunity to ask, 'What about you Haji, which one did you pick?'
Haji gave her a simple yet proud smile, 'Of all the animals that I studied, the one I found most alluring was the Linx pardinus. I was astonished by its spots and long ruffs of fur beneath the chin. They were magnificent animals.'
Sophie's lips drew a captivating soft smile, 'That is interesting. I have considered choosing one that bears a strong resemblance to the Lynx pardinus.'
'You have?' he asked, and now it was his turn to feel curious, 'Which one is it?'
She pouted in a playful manner and then answered with an infantile infatuation, 'Nuh uh...I cannot say. It will be a surprise.'
'That is not fair! I told you mine,' complained Haji. Oddly to him, when gazing at her bright brown eyes the disconnected word ''jubatus'' came to his thoughts. He ignored the word entirely as he did not see her lips move.
 'I did not force you,' Sophie flicked her auburn hair. 'Trust me, my favorite darmian. It will be a lot more interesting when you find out,' she answered and winked at him across the table.
Haji admired her attractive smile as he wondered about what she had chosen, and when a strange and out-of-place silence sunk in, he realized that the rest of their friends were staring at them with amused faces.
'When did you two get so cozy together?' asked an astonished Jack.
'It does not concern you,' Cathy answered with an amused smile. 'Now, moving on. Which attires shall the rest of us choose?'
'I want a fierce animal!' Jack jumped in as loud as he could. 'The fiercest of them all!'
'In that case, choose the Panthera leo,' suggested Cathy, remembering her awe when she saw its animation in the Historical Records. 'It is considered by our Specialists to be the fiercest and most terrifying animal that existed in the obscure age. He had a formidable mane that encompassed his entire head and chest.'
'That one! That's the one!' said Jack raising his finger to the air and unleashing his disproportionate smile.
You gave Haji a sidelong look, 'I don't know if the mane can compete with his tremendous, humongous smile.'
Everyone laughed except for Jack. He frowned at you while you looked up at the metallic ceiling, your hands behind your head.
'Mock me all you want,' retorted Jack in his self-assured wittiness, 'but when the Gathering starts, and you ask me to introduce you to some of my female acquaintances you'll see how humendous my smile can be.'
You leaned forward and gave him a humble smile, 'Come on Jacky, I'm just complimenting your smile. I was saying that nothing can compete with it.'
Jack was pleased with your excuse, and his face changed from disgruntled to smiley, 'Nothing can indeed. And since I am in such good mood, you can count on me to present you to some of the apprentices from class #47. Some of them have been asking me questions about you, ever since they learned of your daring response to mentor Levine.'
Cathy's amused smile waned, and she lowered her eyes to her tray. You managed to notice, and an unsettling sense of helplessness urged you to speak to her. But you did not know how.
'Well, the Gathering's purpose is to allow finalists to find the right companion. I am sure you will find one for you Alan,' she said glancing at you with disappointment.
A veil of silence fell on you corner of the vast table, surrounded by the echoes of clattering and racketing of cutlery and dishes and trays.
'I can hardly believe we have only four more weeks before completing the tenth and last year of apprenticeship,' groaned Jack with his mouth full. 'After that, it is time for a residence of my own and some quality time with my companion.'
Sophie gave him an absent nod.
'It is not long now until we become citizens,' said Cathy.
'Not long now,' you muttered, staring outside the window, your thoughts besieged by great unease.
...I dreaded that moment...
'What do you think mentor Elias meant by suggesting that the Torment is related to the way we experience emotions?' you asked, curious about her words and wanting to change topic. 'There was something in the way she spoke, a hidden intention.'
'It was just a hypothesis, Alan,' assured Sophie.
'A curious one indeed,' added Haji. 'That manifestations may be somehow related to emotions is a disturbing prospect.'
Jack picked up pieces of jelly from his plate, placed two pointy pieces between his teeth and lips and two other round pieces on his eyes, 'Look at me, I'm angry and I'm becoming a pestilent creature!' he said, raising claw-shaped hands at Cathy.
'That you are,' she retorted indifferently.
The pieces fell from his face and he added with displeasure, 'Come on! Are we seriously going to change topics only to feed Alan's hunger for whatever is that he likes to feed on? Theories about how the indoctrinations are meant to deceive us and how they hide from us the existence of civilizations outside Darm...'
You smiled at him. For once you agreed with him, 'You're right Jack, the Gathering is tomorrow, and we have better things to talk about.'
'And I can barely wait any longer!' Cathy added, rousing the mood. 'I want to see how I look as the animal I picked. The virtual illustration did not leave me too impressed. I might have to add some adornments,' she added with a sly look on her face.
As she curled her red hair around a finger she occasionally cast her amber eyes at you, neither smiling nor frowning. You smiled at her absentmindedly.
'I still cannot understand. Why all that interest for an attire?' Jack asked while he filled the fork.
'I do not expect you to understand,' Cathy answered, her eyes looking at the empty tray, her head resting on one hand.
Jack shrugged and filled his mouth with food.
'That's because there is nothing to understand,' he concluded while chewing. 'You girls make a fuss out of everything.'
'Jack, the Gathering is the official occasion for a finalist to choose a companion ,' Haji explained. 'It is an especially important moment for many of us, as our choice will determine whom we will be spending the rest of our existence with. Some finalists, want to look their best for the occasion.'
 'What about you Haji, is it an important moment for you?' Sophie asked him.
Haji looked at her and when her bright brown eyes met his hazel eyes he answered softly, 'I have already chosen my companion.'
Sophie's eyes shone bright as stars and she smiled with absolute delight. Even you, who were still worrying about becoming a citizen, turned your attention to them. It was such a weighty decision for your best friend that you felt an immense joy for him and for Sophie. 
Cathy was happy for her as well and she smiled at them, suppressing a natural hint of envy.
'Well, if no one wants you I can throw in a favor Cathy,' said a completely oblivious Jack with his mouthful.
If eyes could melt, Cathy's stare would have disintegrated Jack.
'Jacky!' Sophie intervened in a cheerful yelp, still overjoyed by Haji's indirect proposal.
Jack realized everyone was staring at him.
'What?!' he shrugged, 'I am just saying, if Cathy can't find anyone, I don't mind being her companion.'
Cathy leaned over the table and answered, smoothly, 'Jacky, I rather have the Torment manifestation that made Marlene throw up.'
The table filled with warm laughter.
'Ouch Cathy, that's harsh,' he answered and smiled at the first apprentice that walked past him, feigning indifference.
'That's well deserved!' you added while laughing.

Throughout the rest of Lunch Time, many apprentices enjoyed the fresh air outside, strolling on the grey granite slabs of the courtyard surrounding the Academy's massive building. The courtyard was decorated with elegant imposing sculptures made of polished gray stone, depicting some of the most memorable mentors to ever exist. Scattered about, were tall and sparkling water fountains mixed with anticoagulant and long benches, kept warm and dry by an internal heating device. 
You and Cathy sat on one of them and enjoyed a truly admirable view of the Netcore. Like a tall pillar of light, it rose from the Central Circle and pierced the clear blue sky, reflecting Mithras as it shone upon her permaglass and impermium countenance. Jack was standing next to you, but he was distracted from the conversation you were having with Cathy, as he was engaged in the repetitive task of greeting female apprentices with his large disproportionate smile as they walked past him. Sophie and Haji were keeping a private distance from the rest of the group. Sophie would smile at him and comb her hair with her fingers, while Haji had the same confused look he used to have when he was unable to understand something. Nevertheless, nearing the end of Lunch Time, they both shared a lasting hug before standing up.
You did not pay much attention to the Citizen's Directives doctrine that afternoon. You were otherwise intrigued about mentor Elias' last statement and your mind kept trying to find a relationship between emotions and the Torment. Therefore, you barely listened to the topics mentor Lauren indoctrinated with dogmatic determination, regarding the complex hierarchies that gave structure to the administrative levels of the Project Facility.
