
'Haji!' you cried out in despair.
Standing next to Haji's lifeless body, Wollen turned to look at you. He crossed his arms patiently and chuckled at your feeble attempt to drag yourself along the wall towards him. 
He leaned his head onto the left shoulder and sneered in contempt.
'Haven't you had enough?' he asked.
With two simple hops he covered the distance between you and sunk a knee in your ribs. The air from your lungs was sucked out as you flew to the ground. 
As you lay on the snow, gasping for air that refused to enter your lungs, he gripped your head with his enormous fleshy hand and lifted you high above the ground. You felt your skull being crushed by the tremendous pressure and out of sheer instinct for survival you grabbed his wrist, howling in pain.
He chuckled mockingly when he saw tears rolling down your anguished face. 'Tell me where your friend took the girl and I will stop hurting you.'
The piercing cold worsened your efforts to breathe. You could barely open your eyes, but still you opened them and locked them onto the creature's pale eye. Your innocent young features shifted from gentleness to somberness as if you had become a grim, proud pyrean.
'You will never find her,' you uttered in a coarse voice.
Wollen widened a rotten smile.
'My, my...she is fast to work her charm,' he mocked. 'My master told me she is the most beautiful thing one can lay eyes upon. That a mere glance from her can steal one's will. I might just have my fun with her before I deliver her to him,' he said and licked his chapped lips with a horrendous dark tongue.
His words filled your mind with anger and your eyes were kindled with rage. You growled through gritted teeth and your arms began to convulse and grow larger only to stop just before becoming as big as the creature's.
Upon seeing the change, Wollen was struck with a mix of wonder and delight. 'You want to punish me? You want to hurt me for what I did to your friend?'
He clenched his claw around your left forearm and you felt a surge of electricity course through your body, causing you to writhe in uncontrollable spasms. Sharp pain stung your mind as the forearm with your Unit erupted in sparks.
'Show me how much,' he said, his deformed voice burning through the sharp pain, consuming your every thought.
A fiery rage took complete hold of you. All the pain was suppressed by a burning sensation and your body began to grow uncontrollably, your head becoming too large for Wollen's hand to grasp. With one increasingly growing hand, you grabbed his stretched out arm and with impossible strength snapped it in two with a single crushing grip. Then you clenched your other hand around his neck and lifted him even higher above the ground, his feet flapping away as you gripped his neck ever tighter. You had become almost twice his size and your face had been twisted beyond recognition, becoming the face of wrath, eyes burning like two boiling embers, teeth crushed in uncontrollable rage.
...I will destroy you...
When you spoke those words, your voice was unlike any sound you had uttered before. It was guttural, seeming more the deep bellow of a beast than the voice of a young pyrean. Your oversized hand was about to snap Wollen's neck when something cold pierced into your abdomen, drove through your gut and erupted from your back. You looked down to see a long silver lance plunged into your abdomen.
Without warning, the cold lance was instantly heated, singing your insides and cauterizing the wound. Then, you were struck by a shock wave of pain and were immediately deprived of all the rage that flowed through your body. Your overgrown hand, once firmly clenched around the Wollen's neck, collapsed back to its normal size and fell limp at your side. Your body slowly shrunk to its normal size, and your unrecognizable grimace receded to an expression of wonder as you sunk to your knees and keeled over.
