The hose disappeared in the lingering mist when Von Howitt threw it to the floor. He removed the gloves and ran to a tool board overlapping the wall of the small booth. With much effort he picked up the biggest and most robust wrench. Its heaviness matched its sturdiness for it was made from an outdated compound of steel - it was resistant but needlessly heavy. However, for the extraordinary circumstance, its weight suited Von Howitt all too well.
He ran to the frozen door with steadfast resolve and smashed! the wrench against it with all his strength. The impact released a loud metallic clang. As if it was made of ice, the frozen surface shattered into a thousand pieces that played a chaotic symphony of bright notes as they fell randomly on the mist-filled floor.
At the point of impact, a shallow crater was dug in the thick layer of impermium. Almost immediately, Mother's voice sounded between the rumbling noises of the machinery: ''Security breach in the maintenance level: Containment procedures engaged.'' 
The warning of Mother roused a desperate sense of urgency in Von Howitt. He cocked the wrench as far back as he could and uncoiling his hips he threw the wrench at the dented door, shattering the remainder of the layer with an unstoppable momentum and tearing a gap wide enough to cross, as the frozen shards of metal fell on the floor.
Silence followed, and from the gap that had been carved, came the cold dark breeze of the night outside.
From the outside, a pyrean peered into the chamber, frantically turning his head as he attempted to discern anything through the vapor that escaped to the cold atmosphere. When he recognized Von Howitt's wrinkly face, he said nervously, 'Joseph! Stalkers have already been deployed! We must hurry!'
 Von Howitt turned his stern gaze to the girl, who stood calmly beside him, ever watching, ever listening, and spoke in a grave tone, 'My dear, since your birth I took care of you as a father would a daughter. I watched with pride as you grew to become the lovely girl you are today. My only wish was that I could look after you in a place far from harm, but that will remain a wish forever,' he said, and his eyes moistened with sadness. 'Now, I can but be content with the knowledge that I have done all I can to help you reach that place.'
'Joseph, we must leave!' said the pyrean outside, stretching out his arm.
Von Howitt calmy spoke to the girl, 'This is Nicholas. He is a reliable friend, and he will guide you there. I send you to a cold dangerous world, but I have taught you everything that will allow you to survive. Now go and be safe, this is my last request.'
'Yes, Specialist Von Howitt,' she answered softly.
He kissed her forehead and watched her leave through the gap on the shattered door, with the help of Nicholas.
Then, Nicholas stretched out his arm to Von Howitt, 'Please, hurry.'
Von Howitt did not move, 'I will buy you some time from this side. It falls onto you to lead her to safety. Do not let them take her,' he pleaded. 'For her sake, and for the sake of us all.'
Nicholas gave him a grim stare, 'I will do my best,' he answered and leaned away from the gap. 
Under the roofless night, shadowed by the tall dark facade of the facility, he pulled a belt from his backpack and tied it to the girl's waist.
'This is a Radiation Dispersion Device ,' he said to her. 'With it, we will pass unnoticed by the stalkers' sensors,' he then removed a pair of dark glasses and placed them on her nose and ears. 'These are spectral lenses. They will allow you to see through the dispersion field.'
The girl looked inside the gap in the door, and with a calm innocent voice spoke, 'I bid my leave, Specialist Von Howitt.'
'Be safe,' he said.
A single tear rolled down his cheek, as his feelings grew to a level he believed they would never grow again. It was the last time he would see her, and he felt terribly sad, yet he could not cry. His emotions were all but dried up and all that he could give her was a saddened stare.
'It has been a privilege, Joseph,' said Nicholas, as his body slowly faded into air.
'It has been a privilege,' Von Howitt repeated as they vanished.

Slowly, he turned his back, walking past the machines in short broken steps and into the access hall. He heard the distinct droning sound of the magtube hovering somebody inside it. He turned to it and waited, and watched, and listened. 
The sliding door opened.
The first things that stepped out were two dreadful creatures made of metal and flesh, whose maimed faces twisted into eerie smiles once they saw the Specialist. Calmly stepping out behind them, far more appealing but no less intimidating, was a Mentalist bearing his crimson mantle and golden stripes falling down each shoulder. His grey eyes gazed upon the Specialist and his thin lips trembled with satisfaction.
'Vittas,' Von Howitt softly muttered in his last breath.
He suddenly felt his limbs falter from head to toe. His body fell to the floor, his eyes opened wide, his face filled with helpless wonder.
Silence came about him.
Darkness overtook him.
And the insipid taste of death became his last memory, as his consciousness slipped away into nothingness.

...why have you shown me this...
I have brought you to see these memories so that you may better understand what I am to show you next. For it was during this night, while you lay in sleep, that Joseph Von Howitt, a pyrean you never came to know, sacrificed his life to free the one that would give purpose to yours.
