Eleventh memory - Fugitives in Darm

''They shall be powerful and agile, beautiful and intelligent. They will rise beyond mortality and become the embodiment of all virtues that Mankind so fruitlessly sought to achieve. In one word, they shall be perfect.''

An excerpt rescued from the last diary of Gadim: the Homo Universalis;


Outside Cathy's skyscraper, not a gust of wind could be felt. The black clouds were still settling above Darm, and the avenues were so calm that neither you nor Haji could have ever foreseen the peril that would soon fall upon you, for instead of heading towards a good night's rest, you and Haji entered the bright South Boulevard and walked towards the Hub to try your way inside.
The Boulevard's white marbled pavement was as shimmering and dry as ever, for its tiles were heated and porous so that any snow or ice falling on it would melt and the water would drain. After coming between the two Air Intake Fields flanking the South entrance to the Hub, you and Haji stopped at a distance from the imposing plasma barrier. Under the lighted gap you had crossed earlier that day, you could still see the same squad of six sentinels guarding the access with untiring alertness. 
Haji sat on one of the large, heated benches that split the Boulevard in two. He was pleased to be back inside his green uniform, although he felt that his animal attire had suited him very well.
'Stay here,' you said to him through your facemask's speaker.
You approached the checkpoint alone to confirm the assumption Haji had made regarding entrance in the Hub. Stepping into the arched gap, two sentinels moved to block your passage and you heard Mother's gentle voice coming from one of their blue featureless facades:
'At present time, darmians are not allowed inside the Hub. My apologies for the inconvenience, apprentice Balthazar. Order ensures progress.'
'It is important that I enter,' you said firmly.
'At present time, darmians are not allowed inside the Hub. For matters of urgency, please contact Mentalist Vittas. Order ensures progress.' the sentinel repeated in the same manner, only to stand before you, unflinchingly, like a solid statue. 
The irony of contacting the Mentalist responsible for darmian security to sneak around in a restricted area was not lost on you. You let out a frustrated sigh and turned back to join Haji again.
He was still sitting calmly next to the warm gust of air coming from a ventilation box, already knowing what the outcome of your attempt would be.
'Mother won't let us in,' you muttered.
'I assumed as much,' he answered through his facemask's speaker.
'We could create a distraction that would force the sentinels to leave their post and then slip inside,' you suggested.
'I hardly doubt Mother would leave the entrance unguarded,' he answered unaffectedly. 'And have you considered the consequences of being caught?'
'We could activate the Signal Re-Route,' you suggested tentatively.
Haji did not even bother to reply.
...find a way in...
You grunted in dismay. 'There must be a way in! Can't you think of anything?'
'I do not believe there is one, Alan,' he said kindly. 'It is certain that all entrances are equally secured, and the plasma barrier encircling the Hub is very much impenetrable.'
'So, we are just going to give up?' you asked.
'My apologies, Alan, but there is not much I can think of. Mother is vastly more intelligent than any of us and her droids have unerring perception. Even if, somehow, we had managed to gain access to the Hub, in no way would we be able to evade so many sentinels, not to mention the drones,' he said and pointed at the specks of light glowing dimly in the dark sky above the Hub.
It was hard for you to admit, but Haji was right. Mother's use of the Darmian Security Droids as her proxy allowed her an almost omnipresent supervision of Darm. But this was what made the matter all the more intriguing to you. How could she have let the Specialists escape the Project Facility in the first place? And how could it be that she has not found them yet?
'However, there is a related matter that I did not tell you until now, mostly because I wanted something to cheer you up after your foiled attempt,' Haji said. 'If you say you found the bracelet outside the Hub and if the bracelet indeed belongs to the Specialists, that means they might be outside already.'
You stared at him, quietly considering the possibility. If that was indeed true, then you were at liberty to search for them in the other sectors, you thought. As you gazed absentmindedly into the Air Intake Field to your right, you remembered where you had found the bracelet and the most obvious of hypothesis came to you.
'I have an idea of just where they might be,' you said enthusiastically. 'Follow me.'
You started heading back down the South Boulevard, close to the edge of the left Air Intake Field.
Haji got up in a hurry. 'I did not mean that we should go looking for them,' he asked, his voice denoting concern.
 'No, no... were just heading back,' you answered furtively as you hastened your pace.
'Why do I sense that you are going to get us in trouble?' Haji said, hurrying to stand by your side.
You chuckled. At this point you had cleared the South Boulevard and were walking along the edge of the Air Intake Field, towards the East Boulevard, where you had found the bracelet.
'So, you and Sophie,' you said in between hurried breaths, while taking short glances inside the darkened field, where tall towers pulled in the freezing air above the metropolis.
'We will become Companions,' stated Haji.
'I'm happy for you. And for her,' you said hastily.
'What about you and Cathy?' he asked. 'I assume you discussed about companionship with her when you were alone in the balcony?'
You remembered the moment when you and Cathy kissed. 'Sort of...but I decided not to be her companion.'
'For what reason?' Haji asked.
'For no reason,' you answered evasively, peering inside the Field again.
'If there is no reason, your decision does not make sense.'
'Well, there is a reason,' you retorted with indifference. 'She kissed me when we were alone in the balcony. But I didn't feel anything. Anything other than her wet lips, that is.'
Despite being surprised with Cathy for breaching a Directive, he followed his line of reasoning, 'And you allowed the absence of feelings to serve as grounds for a decision?'
You shrugged and chuckled. 'I guess I did.'
'Why?' he asked, utterly confused.
You sighed. 'It just doesn't seem right to be with someone if you don't feel anything when you kiss her.'
'Alan, be reasonable,' and Haji's voice showed concern and care. 'You and Cathy have been friends since the start of apprenticeship and you have always been in good terms with each other. As best as I can reason, she seems to be the most suitable companion for you. You should not throw away the opportunity to be with her out of lack of an emotional response to a physical intimacy.'
You stopped on your feet to ponder his point of view, staring into the Air Intake Field in front of you. Anguish began to boil inside you, and you felt increasingly confused about your decision.
'You should not let feelings overcome reason, Alan. If you miss the opportunity to choose her now, Mother will choose someone for you with which you might not have any common interest.' Haji said, concluding thoughts, and were his face not hiding under his facemask and you would have seen his witty smile.
You looked at him and smiled. 'You're probably right,' you admitted with modesty.
At that moment, Haji turned his attention to the residences on his right.
'Our residences are that way,' he said, and pointed to the large blocks of houses standing quietly in the dark.
'I know,' you said with resolve.
You approached the waist-high wall, the gust of the towers gently pulling you in. You glanced from side to side and when you made sure that no sentinel was watching, you raised one leg over the wall.
Almost immediately, you heard Haji's nervous whisper from behind you, 'Alan, what are you doing?'
 'I'm stepping inside,' you said as you landed one foot on the other side.
'We are not allowed inside the Air Intake Fields. It is very dangerous. We could get caught by a draft and sucked into one of the air inlets.'
'All the more reason to see if there is a Specialist in need of assistance inside,' you retorted wittily.
Haji's voice rose to a loud whisper, 'Do not climb that wall, Alan Balthazar. Mother knows you will!'
Your feet landed on the pavement on the other side.
An eerie silence followed.
You looked back and smiled, 'Still haven't received any message.'
'Just wait and see. The sentinels will be here in no time,' he said, and his voice was now considerably aggravated for he was starting to realize you were beyond reasoning.
Still, the silence remained undisturbed. No clanging of metallic feet was heard in the distance. Only the quiet gust of air rushing above your heads.
You let out the thought that had been brewing in your mind, 'Haji, I found the bracelet near the edge of this very Field. The Specialists could be hiding here. Don't you want to see the Torment for yourself?'
Haji looked at you quietly, his concern hiding behind the facemask. He was moved by your appeal. Even so, he answered in sound judgment, 'Not if it implies being banned from Darm. Mother knows where we are! And the Torment is very dangerous. The Specialists are not themselves. We could be endangering our existences if they see us.'
'Well, I am going,' you said stubbornly. 'And if I recall correctly, you said you were accompanying me to see to my safety, did you not?'
'I did,' he said, knowing where that line of thought was headed.
You added in a mischievous manner, 'So, if I am going, you should come too, edgy.'
He stared at you silently. Then, he took a deep breath. 'This will not end well,' he said before stepping over the wall.
