
After you activated your Signal Re-Route, you headed on to the meeting point, crossing the East Boulevard towards the first row of the tall large facilities of the Manufacturing Sector. When you arrived, you leaned against a ventilation box and looked at the sky. Mithras had already sunk below the horizon, covering the heavens with dark shades of blue, which stubbornly forbade Oderon's Rings from claiming the night with their silvery light. Some of the largest lunoids already managed to shine through, and these stretched across the heavens from pale-blue twilight to dark-blue nightfall, their sharp glare preventing any other star from shining through.
Haji arrived soon after. He approached the ventilation box, which emitted a soft pulsating sound as it spewed warm purified air into the atmosphere. 
'It is a pleasant evening for a walk,' he remarked, his voice projected through the facemask.
You stepped away from the box and greeted him with a bow.
'Did you put yourself to sleep?' he asked, referring to the act of turning on the Signal Re-Route.
'Something like that,' you answered in an amused tone, your face hiding behind the facemask as well. 'But Evander is becoming sort of a nuisance. He doesn't stop complaining about it. I might just have to reprogram him.'
'For all the hardship you go through from having only one caretaker, at least you have a lively host,' he said amusedly.
You shrugged. 'I suppose. Shall we?'
Haji nodded.

The conventional way to enter any sector was crossing the checkpoints that connected the Four Boulevards with the streets and avenues of the adjacent sectors. However, each checkpoint was supervised by sentinels. Aware of the risk of being spotted by the droids, whose sensors could detect the irregularity in your signal, you avoided walking under the hovering lamps that lit the boulevard, hid from sight behind the benches and ventilation boxes, and then snuck inside the Manufacturing Sector through an unguarded alley between two facilities.
'Made it,' you said in a lively manner, after peering back and making sure no sentinels were marching your way.
Quietly treading towards the end of the alley, you entered one of the secondary streets only to quickly disappear into the shadowy alley of the next row of facilities.
'I wonder if Brent has already prepared the interface,' you mumbled restlessly, as you reviewed the procedures for the race.
'That is not the worst of our concerns,' Haji whispered.
Despite his vague answer, you understood what he meant. You knew, as well as he did, how complex and perilous it was to establish a connection abroad. Several override protocols were required to bypass the seemingly flawless control nodes that shielded Mother's communications network from unauthorized access. All that was needed for her to detect an anomaly and locate the source of the signal, was but one of those protocols to fail. Every time you thought about it, you could not help but wonder why Brent risked his citizenship to grant you the opportunity to enjoy the best entertainment that Remgast had to offer.

Upon arriving at the alley adjacent to the facility concealing the Shelter, you stopped in front of its sealed maintenance door. You knocked once, stopped, and then twice.
Then you waited.
And waited.
The metallic door slid open in an instant.
From the scarcely illuminated interior, stepped forth a tall imposing pyrean, broad in stature, with a stern face and strong chin that made him look older than he was. He was wearing a yellow jumpsuit packed with flap pockets, and his robust hands rested on a utility belt with several tools hanging from it.
He gave each of you a piercing stare, 'A little longer and I would have had Mother look for you,' he scoffed.
'You know how lengthy travelling can get during Return Hour, especially near the end of the year,' you explained.
'The actual truth is that Alan had another private conversation with the History mentor,' Haji stated.
You elbowed him, your eyes smiling innocently at Brent.
Brent pursed his lips and stared at you for a while. Then, he cautiously examined the alley from one side to the other, 'Hurry inside,' he said, stepping aside.
You and Haji complied immediately. When the sliding door closed behind you, you removed your facemasks.
The facility was dark, except for a stream of light that stretched from an opened entrance atop a staircase to the right. A huge container loomed before you, blocking the access to the innermost part of the facility.
You followed Brent through the improvised corridor between the container and the steel staircase, 'So...Alan, are you trying to start an insurrection?' he jested, looking back with a wicked grin.
You gave him a proud smile. Impressing Brent was one of the few things you cared about.
'Luckily for you, I took the time to set up the interface,' he added.
Under the steel staircase was another staircase that led to the underground level. You and Haji followed Brent down the staircase, and as soon as the luminous projectors lit up the pitch black basement, he led you to a corner, walking past a circular platform whose function was to lower the cargo bundles onto the magnetic conveyor connected to the Materialization Chamber.
Stopping at the corner, Brent felt one flap pocket with one hand, and then the other, and another. He muttered some interjections and then looked at his utility belt. He fumbled in the belt's pocket for a while. A smile lit his face and he pulled out his closed hand. 
'Almost forgot where I had put it. Almost,' he said.
In his right hand rested a smooth black cube the size of his palm. He turned to face the fibreconcrete wall and kneeled. When he pressed the cube onto the wall with one thumb, the cube responded with a sharp beep!. He then rose to his feet, stretching the upper edge of the cube diagonally across the wall. The cube expanded, becoming a tall rectangular frame resembling that of a door. When it seemed wide enough to cross, he pressed the thumb again. Almost immediately, an image popped up from the wall inside the frame: a set of power bars filled in green with a message floating below, flickering with the word ''Ready.''
When Brent's finger touched the word, the casing emitted an ever higher shrill sound, and moments after, when the sound rose to a deafening screech, an intense flare erupted from the casing and converged into the center in a blinding eruption of light that forced you to close your eyes.
Afterwards, there was only a tenuous whirring, soft to the ears.
'Dive through,' you heard Brent say as you opened your eyes.
Diving through was the ideal expression to describe the passage through the liquefied wall, for the matter dispersion device had converted the virtually impenetrable fibreconcrete into a viscous liquid.
On the other side of the semi-transparent surface, leisurely undulating as if submerged, was a partial view of a scarcely lit room and two barely perceptible armchairs with their backs turned against the wall opposite the entrance.
'I hate this part,' you complained, a look of nausea in your face as you stared at the liquefied wall.
Haji smiled at you dived through. His body plunged into the wall and emerged on the other side. His body wobbled like gelatin as he turned and waved at you through the liquefied wall. 
Brent stepped back, ushering you into the Shelter.
'Apprentices first,' he said, not on account of politeness you concluded by the grin on his face.
You threw him a grumpy smile and approached the wall. You plunged your right leg in and with your right foot you tapped the firm flat floor on the other side. Then, you closed your eyes, held your breath, and pushed yourself through, piercing through the viscous layer of fibreconcrete that resisted your every movement, only to spew you afterwards into the Shelter.
