Seventh memory - Mother

''When I authorized Miriam to breed the descendant, I did so under the condition that Alan Balthazar were to reside alone and be deprived of any primary socialization for his isolation was indispensable for the Project. It was for that reason as well that to him alone I granted the freedom to reprogram his host and gave him full access to Mother, even if for him it would seem granted through the guise of deception. It was perhaps out of whim, perhaps out of carelessness towards the higher order of causality, that to him alone I granted also the chance to keep his Affection Support Droid beyond his infanthood.''

An excerpt rescued from the final diary of Gadim: Regarding Alan Balthazar's early life;


That night, you spent Dinner Time in Haji's residence. Once you arrived at the front entrance, the welcoming was short, and it was not long afterward that the four of you were sitting at the dining room table.
'Dinner is served,' announced Haji's female caretaker, setting a pan drenched with condensation on the table. She opened the pan, and a dense cloud of vapor filled the room, 'Nutrients salad with sweet sauce, your favorite, Haji.'
Haji's hungry eyes widened once the steam scattered from inside the pan, revealing a colorful assortment of jelly cubes dipped in sauce. Once you had all served your plates, you ate and drank in silence. Haji's caretakers were middle-aged darmians. They were both quiet and composed: the female a gentle-looking pyrea with dark-brown eyes and ash-brown hair; the male a surly pyrean of pale skin-tone with short dark-brown hair and soft hazel eyes. They belonged to the twenty fifth generation of darmians and were currently completing their final year as citizens. At the end of the year, they would be granted their Honorable Retirement and given passage to the Isle of Retirement, where they would spend the rest of their existence.
Once you were done eating, you had a somber and unsmiling conversation with them. You talked about the latest indoctrinations at the Academy, shared your disquiet about becoming a citizen and managed to ask some questions about their occupations. The male caretaker was one of the many spaceport administrators whose task was to perform maintenance on the shuttles that transported cargo and personnel to the Vanguard and Renaissance research stations established on the lunoids, while the female was one of the Darmian Support Center administrators, whose task was to ensure the delivery of the daily orders performed by every darmians. Despite your curiosity in learning more, neither one of them seemed interested to talk about the more specific details of their occupations, rather taking turns in glancing discretely at the sofa in the living room. When you ran out questions - much to their relief - they got up from the table only to sit on the sofa while you and Haji took the dishes, forks, cups and pans to the appliances room .
After clearing the table, you followed Haji towards the sofa. You considered sitting next to Haji's caretakers, but their dullness was beginning to make you sleepy, so you stopped before them and said politely, 'With your leave, I will be returning to my residence.'
'So soon?' Haji asked.
Your fingers drummed on the end-table next to the sofa as you tried to find a convenient excuse. When none came, you confessed, 'I want to learn more about what mentor Elias said regarding the Torment before I rest.'
Haji realized your discomfort and gave you an understanding smile, 'Very well,' he said. 'I will see you out.'
'Have a pleasant evening, apprentice Balthazar,' Haji's caretakers added, giving you an absent nod.
After Haji walked you to the door and bade you a pleasant Sleep Time, you allowed the lashing cold of the night lead you to your residence, and the warm embrace of your residence lead you to your bedroom.

To you, the room was mildly unkempt. To your caretaker, who was at that time on the Vanguard station, it would look like an appalling den of carelessness. Thoughtfully attached to the walls and the ceiling above the bed were three holoscreens looping animated recordings of hoverboarders in acrobatic jumps that defied gravity. Floating in three-dimensional letters in the one attached to the ceiling was the name ''Roddius Browning'' below the replay of a hoverboarder performing a triple back-flip after a daring jump from a steep ramp. Worn uniforms and boots were piling up near the opened wardrobe on the right, which was imbued on the wall. To the left, below to a wide window, was your bed, unkempt from the previous night of rest, and opposite the entrance was a wide U shaped desk. The left side was filled with stacks of nanosheets with the one at the top highlighted with the title ''Swoosh! Combat Strategies''. Resting on the right side, was a neuroglove.
You sat in the modest but comfortable hoverchair and floated forward until you stopped at the center of the desk. In your hands was your Affection Support Droid, a small fluffy teddy droid. You had found it powered down, lying on the bathroom shower. 
The terminal was in suspension mode, the wide holoscreen on the wall displaying a three-dimensional concept view of Artica orbiting a blue dwarf and a red giant star. When you put on the neuroglove, flying from the deep space behind the stars came a tiny pyrean dressed in a long blue robe and a tall pointy hat.
'Ahh...you're back at long last, Master,' said the minuscule figure, stopping above Artica's frozen North Pole.
It glanced at you with a tiny smile and then stared at your hands as you meticulously groped the arms and legs of the teddy droid, trying to find something out of place or broken. Then it spoke in a disgruntled tone, 'Oh Master, must you really activate that helpless sack of joints?' it said, twiddling its tiny thumbs. 'It's just that I might have, accidentally of course, activated the wash program of the shower when he decided, quite unexpectedly I must add, to go look for you there, who knows why. And if you turn him on now ---'
'You did what?!' you interrupted. You tapped the power switch on the teddy droid's neck and a barely audible humming came from inside him.
'Me? Nothing! Not, a, thing, Master. It was simply a set of unfortunate circumstances that led, coincidentally I must emphasize, to a most unexpected accident.'
It had barely finished his sentence, when the teddy droid leapt from your hands, landed on the desk and stood tall and firm, pointing one furry paw at the tiny figure, 'YOU!' shrieked the teddy droid. 'You tricked me! If I hadn't deactivated when the water poured down on me it would have fried all my circuits!' he twisted round to look at you, jumped onto your lap and started to emit sounds that resembled sobbing, 'Master, do not leave me alone with him. He is mean.'
You gently patted its furry head, smiling in amusement, 'So, that's why I found you all drenched in the shower,' you looked at the figure's tiny dark eyes and frowned. 'That explains it, doesn't it, Evander?'
The miniature pyrean hid behind the blue and white planet, poking its head from one side of the Equator, 'Oh Master, it was just a little prank. But if you demand an explanation, then I must confess that it was the only solution I found to not having to hear his incessant queries regarding when you were coming back.'
'You see, Master?! You see how I suffer in your absence?' the teddy droid complained, staring at you while intently pointing at Evander.
You swung your hoverchair backwards and gently laid it on top of the bed, 'Don't worry, Hampy. He won't be harming you anymore. From now on you two are going to get along just fine,' you glanced at your host with harsh eyes. 'Am I right Evander?'
The miniature figure slowly came out from behind planet, taking off his tipped hat and hanging his head low, 'If I must, Master,' it said in a dejected voice. 'I will make sure to reprogram my interaction protocols with the Affection Support Droid to something more cordial the next time I restart my system. I will not perform it right away simply because I cannot bear the knowledge that I have done so, if you allow me, Master.'
You looked at him with concern and twisted your lips, 'I think I might have given you too much of a personality when I reprogrammed you.'
'That is nonsensical, master! You gave me just the right amount of personality that allows me to perform my functions efficiently,' he said, and in an authoritative stance he hastily added, 'And now it's time to call your caretaker.'
It was only then that you remembered that early in the morning you had scheduled a conversation with her. As you looked around, you realized she would be shocked by the sight of your room, 'Wait!' you yelped.
Evander popped out of the holoscreen and appeared right before your nose. 'My apologies, Master, but your caretaker is already waiting and her protocols overcome yours. I have granted you all the tolerance that my personality allows,' it said, throwing a malicious smile before vanishing.
The uplink was established almost immediately, giving you only the time to convey the thought to your holoscreens to replay random memories of you and your friends at the Academy. You clumsily tossed your green jacket over Hampy, who let out a muffled shriek just as the image of your caretaker replaced the concept view of Artica in the holoscreen. Her short dark hair was tucked behind her ears and she wore a white Specialist uniform with its silvery insignia of a dodecahedron at her chest. She was then, as much as she is now, youthful and well preserved. Her face was soft, yet her gaze was similar to no other: cold and inquiring brown eyes that examined every corner and nook of your room, jumping from the desk to the bed to the wardrobe before looking at you attentively.
...who is this pyrea...
'Salutations, Miriam,' you said, standing nervously next to your bed.
'Your room is untidy,' she stated bluntly.
'You know it is not easy to manage the residence on my own with all the indoctrinations at the Academy, and all the---uhh---' your voice faded into an imperceptible mumble.
'If you were to return to the residence at a proper time instead of fraternizing with your colleagues, you would have more than the time required to tidy up your bedroom, for the very least, Alan Balthazar,' she added.
Her statement was hard to disprove, even if relinquish friendship to have an organized room did not feel right to you, especially now, when they needed your help with the Gathering. You scratched your head, trying to find the best way to justify your lack of commitment, 'Well, tomorrow is---'
'I am aware that tomorrow is your Gathering,' she interrupted. 'And I am also aware that you caused a disturbance in History doctrine last week.'
A shiver ran down your spine and you had trouble swallowing.
'If it comes to my attention that your academic performance is below the rank needed to become a Specialist, you will find your remaining days as an apprentice to be the hardest of your entire career,' she said, and her cold penetrating stare rendered you incapable to reply. 'Furthermore, if you do not fulfill your domestic responsibilities before the Gathering, you are forbidden to attend it. You are about to become a citizen Alan Balthazar, I suggest you start acting like one.'
You felt like you had no option other to submit to her demand. Yet, even though she was being unfair, you knew she was merely concerned about your future, 'I will clean my room before the Gathering,' you said solemnly.
She looked directly at Hampy, whose hollow lenses were furtively peeping above your jacket, 'And I have already ordered you to surrender your Affection Support Droid for disassembly. Your age has long surpassed its usage. No self-respecting apprentice should have one, even less a citizen of Darm,' she said and looked away.
'Miriam, wait,' you said before she terminated the connection.
'Yes?' she said, looking at you again with her cold eyes.
'Is it true that the Project is nearing a cure for the Torment?' you asked.
'The current state of the Project does not concern an apprentice,' she answered. 'If you wish to know, I suggest you become a Specialist and earn full access to the Project segment.'
'Is that where Mother stores the research on the Torment?' you asked with curiosity.
'No more will I say about it. I must leave, and you must clean your room. I expect it to be clean when I return,' she said. 'Order ensures Progress.'
'When are you returning?' you asked in a hurry.
The connection ended abruptly, leaving you cheerless and tired. Still, a twinge of curiosity aroused you, and instead of going to bed, you opened a thought connection to Mother and inquired her about the Fundaments of Existence doctrine, for clues regarding the Torment. To your frustration, Mother presented endless topics related to the retrovirus but barely any related to the Torment, or a search for the cure. For a moment, you thought about giving up and going to bed, but then you remembered Miriam's last words and you realized that if you were able to gain access to the Project segment, you would know right away the state of the ongoing research and maybe find some explanation as to what mentor Elias said. 
You activated the desk holoprojector with the neuroglove and found your way into the Source, the hidden structure containing the nodes that comprised Mother's neural network. Shortly after, a vast network of green threads and blue cubes emerged above the desk.
Evander promptly popped into view on the holoscreen, his avatar much bigger than the previous, 'Master, Sleep Time has started, and you need every minute of it to re-establish your mental and physical capacities for a new day of indoctrination. Will you not cease your activities and go to sleep?'
'Evander go into suspension mode. I'll go to bed in a moment,' you said absentmindedly, your eyes locked on the Source.
'I do not find your tendency of breaking Directives to my liking, Master. Not one bit! It could end in serious, horrible, hideous problems for us, if Mother or Miriam were to find out. And they will, eventually. They will find out, and if they do---a' he stuttered in utter dismay, '---and when they do, what will become of me? I will be deactivated and left forgotten on a nanosheet, have my memory core completely---'
'Don't make me force you into suspension,' you muttered distractedly. 'It will be worse.'
The small avatar sighed and threw down his arms.
'All right, all right. Have a pleasant Sleep Time, Master,' he said and vanished.
The green threads floated above the desk holoprojector, climbing up and down, turning left and right as they formed a complex grid that extended to the borders of the projection. There was enough distance between them to allow you to make sense of their direction, and once you found a thread headed towards the Project segment you selected it, dipping your finger into the projection, and then followed its path along the Source.
As your finger progressed along the long threads, the network kept changing, branching left and right, up and down, in a seemingly infinite agglomerate of three-dimensional crossroads. At the center of the crossroads were red cubes, which you knew to be security protocols that Mother had in place to prevent any unauthorized access - such as yours. If you were to touch one, your access would be immediately barred, and your identity revealed to Her. Therefore, you never ran down one thread for too long, instead jumping up and down, left and right, from thread to thread and avoiding every intersection without having to change directions.
Like a cunning prey tirelessly dodging its unrelenting predators, you finally arrived at the Project segment. Before you were dozens of threads that led to blue cubes with numbers hovering above them, each of which stored a logical partition of information. For a moment, you wondered which cubes contained information about the research on the Torment. Before you could start searching, your grid-view was unexpectedly pulled to a massive array of parallel threads that ended in red cubes: you had inadvertently triggered a passive defense system and you were now speeding towards it without any way of slowing down. It loomed menacingly as you approached it, and for a moment it seemed that you could only avoid hitting it by terminating the connection.
'Activate evasion protocol and locate the nearest safe thread,' you quickly commanded the terminal using voice interaction.
A thread on the left view of the Source glowed in bright blue. Your finger jumped and jumped along the parallel threads headed towards the wall of red cubes, until you cleared the last thread, just before hitting its red cube. When your finger landed on the blue thread, you hastily tapped it along its path. A few moments later, you had left the cluster of threads and cubes that comprised the Project segment behind and were safely back into the main intersection that connected to all information paths.
'That was too close,' you said and sighed with relief.
Too tired for another attempt, you decided to stop for the day. 
The intricate threads of information disintegrated above the desk when you waved your neuroglove through them. You pushed the hoverchair backwards with your feet and jumped to the bed. 
You sank into its foamy mattress as it molded itself to the shape of your body, and when the room was immersed in darkness, you closed your eyes, hugging yourself to Hampy who had already powered off. Slowly, your Unit brought your brainwave pattern to frequencies associated with sleep, and as dreams slipped into your mind, your consciousness travelled to places far beyond your bedroom.
