Eighth memory - Desperate Measures

''Several were the occasions in the past when one single individual was forced to choose between the lives of a few and the salvation of millions. When that choice fell upon me, I was forced to choose between the extinction of my kind and the end of time.''

An excerpt rescued from the final diary of Gadim: Contemplations regarding The End;


'Von Howitt,' said a sharp voice.
'Voice recognition successful. Have a pleasant and productive evening, Specialist Von Howitt,' said the soft voice of Mother.
The reinforced sliding-door that led to the containment wing opened with one quick jerk, releasing into the air the distinct odor of ether. Von Howitt took one deep breath and then calmly entered the dark and silenced corridor with a grim, attentive stare.
He heard the door close behind him as he walked along the ample wing flanked with lettered sealed doors on both walls. The ceiling and floor lit around him as he progressed along the corridor and dimmed behind him, lighting his steps in a smooth succession of spotlights until he stopped at the sealed door with the letter ''A''.
The door opened as soon as his forearm hovered above the touchscreen. Inside the short and narrow white room, was a girl lying gently on a smooth metal slab that extended from the wall. Von Howitt approached the slab, kneeled beside it, and cast a tender gaze over the girl's resting face. 
'Time to wake up, my dear,' he said with a gentle smile.
He was an aged Specialist with wrinkly face and gray hair, old enough for Honorable Retirement, whereas she was immaculate and young. Her short hair was as white as snow and her face as cool as a wintry morning; her chin was angular, her lips soft, her nose upright, and long snow-white eyebrows surmounted her closed eyes. She slowly opened them and looked at him attentively, seeming that she had been awake for a long time. Their color was of pure blue and they glowed like sapphires sunk in an unfathomable depth.
...I know these eyes...
'Let us go for a walk.' the Specialist said tenderly.
She gave him a simple nod and stood up. She was taller than the Specialist, who was a head shorter. On her slender body was a white exoderm stretching from her neck, down to her wrists and ankles, and around her neck was a thin metallic collar. After she gave him her hand, Von Howitt led her outside the room.
'This is a very special occasion,' he said, walking nervously alongside her towards the exit of the wing.
Her silence contrasted with the increasing unease in the Specialist's voice, 'You are about to perform an important trial that requires you to follow commands without raising questions.'
They exited the wing and entered a well-lit room with a round counter at the center.
Von Howitt walked up to it.
Inside the cabin was a civilian of a robust stature, wearing a white uniform with the dodecahedron insignia of a Specialist on his chest. He was focused on verifying data on the many holoscreens under the metallic counter and gave no sign of being aware of Von Howitt.
Beyond the counter was a curved permaglass door and beyond it was a deep white hallway filled with crossing corridors that abruptly ended in a distant wall. 
The curved door opened to the sides.
'The escort is awaiting ahead, Specialist Von Howitt,' the pyrean said, eyeing him attentively and then examining the girl. 'Standard procedures are in effect.'
'Certainly, Specialist Marlon,' said Von Howitt, and he led the girl through the door.
Confirming what the Specialist said, on the other side of the checkpoint was a dark oval shaped drone, hovering above the white ground. It hovered no higher than the Specialist's waist, and on top of its dark metal coating was a smoked permaglass dome that sheltered its sensory devices. When it acknowledged their presence, it emitted sounds in distinct frequencies spaced in small intervals, resembling a coded language.
Von Howitt understood what it was saying and when the drone stopped beeping, he answered, 'That won't be necessary, she is sedated.'
The drone beeped again, and its beeps were less spaced and faster, seeming that it was distressed with Von Howitt's reply.
'I will take full responsibility for any damage caused if control over the specimen is lost,' Von Howitt answered. 'Now, lead us to the observations room number thirteen.'
The escort answered with two loud beeps and hovered along the white corridor. Von Howitt followed it one meter behind, the girl alongside him, and as they moved, he cast an occasional sidelong glance through the windowed rooms along the corridor, the breeding chambers inside which new specimens were born. They were immersed in individual incubation tanks hermetically sealed to prevent outside contaminants filled with an amniotic solution that would protect and nurture the still developing fetuses. Inside one of them, a fully mature specimen was restlessly tapping its feet on the permaglass while from the outside a Specialist analyzed the data being displayed on the small holoscreen attached to the tank.
Exiting the level, they walked through an opened blast door and entered the entrance hall, the number ''313'' engraved on its wall. They stepped into a magtube and floated down.
...where are we...
At the underground levels of the Project Facility. It was inside these tightly secured corridors that the cure for the Torment was being conceived. The resulting specimens were bred, kept and observed beyond the knowledge of all but a few Specialists. If something were to go wrong with the procedures, the sturdy blast doors at the entrance would close and anyone inside would be sealed in, to forever remain buried in dark forgotten halls. Some levels below had had that gruesome fate and were now out of service. Throughout the years, many young Specialists were abandoned alive alongside rampaging specimens. Only in the worst of nightmares may you imagine the unspeakable horrors they suffered and the gruesome fate they met. But those are other memories altogether, better left forgotten than remembered...

Following the drone down one of the corridors, Von Howitt and the girl stopped near a sealed access door. Above it was a screen indicating ''Observations Room Nr. 13''. The Specialist dismissed the drone and - once he was sure it was out of sight - led the girl into the room. 
Sitting in front of a long metallic desk, burdened with several devices of different shapes and purposes, was a young Specialist stooping over a small transparent slide placed over a surface that irradiated light. He wore a pair of magnifying goggles, simple in shape, but highly effective for gazing at objects down to the nanometric scale, and he seemed to be tinkering with the slide, examining it closely and poking it with a pointy tweezers. It took him a while to turn his attention to Von Howitt and the girl, and when he looked at them with his magnifying goggles still on, his eyes were huge and disproportionate, slowly becoming smaller as the goggles adjusted themselves to the meter scale. When he managed to realize who had walked into the room, he flinched, his chair hovering backwards.
Von Howitt ignored him altogether. He locked the door, sat the girl in a hoverchair next to the desk, and then rushed into one of the desk drawers to rummage its contents. Nanosheets flew to the ground as his restless hands cleared the inside and pulled a metallic box which he then placed on the desk. He opened the box and removed from inside it a cylindrical object. It was smooth and utterly dark, and as he looked at it, it contracted and collapsed itself into a pair of pliers. Von Howitt was used to the transformation, and when he applied it to the girl's restrictive collar , the pliers' tips expanded and molded around the collar.
'This is going to hurt a little,' said Von Howitt in a tender voice.
It was only then that the bewildered young Specialist gathered the nerve to react. He stammered awkwardly, almost doubting his own words, 'Specimens are not allowed in Observation Rooms! You, you must not remove the collar!'
He made a sneaky attempt to grab his neurolink which was foolishly resting on the desk, but when his hand was upon it, Von Howitt's gripped his skinny forearm faster than his old age could tell.
'I advise you to stay very still, and be very quiet, Specialist Helmholtz,' said Von Howitt, giving him a menacing smile.
The young Specialist froze in shock when he heard the warning, his wide-open eyes growing to three times their size when Von Howitt loomed over his goggles. He nodded hastily, backed his hoverchair to a corner and sank in it.
Von Howitt quickly turned his attention to the girl. She was staring at him attentively.
'I won't harm him. He will be all right.' then he added, glancing back at the young Specialist, 'If he heeds my advice.'
He squeezed the trigger on the pliers and the collar broke loose from around her neck without the girl letting out so much as a moan. After throwing the collar to the ground, the pliers fused into a needle that Von Howitt applied to her neck and pricked her soft skin. Soon after, a green light blinked on the apparatus' small screen. Von Howitt allowed himself a gentle smile. Then he stood up, grimacing from an old back ache, and stretched out one hand to her.
'Shall we?' he said.
She nodded and gave him one hand.
Von Howitt unlocked the door, waving his forearm over the touchscreen, and before exiting the Observations Room he picked up the neurolink on the desk and turned to the young Specialist who was still in one corner of the room, staring at them in shock.
'It is best that you wait here a few minutes before you leave to the surface. I advise you not to contact Mother in the meantime.'
He carried on in hasty footsteps, leading the girl to the magtubes at the end of the long silent corridor, flanked by dark intersections and ominously sealed doors. Von Howitt struggled to keep up the pace, always turning back to check if no one or nothing was following them as they approached the end. And it was precisely at the end of the white corridor, past its blast door, that he almost rammed into two tall pyreans when turning on the last intersection. He staggered backwards when he recognized them, cursing his ill fortune.
Blocking his last meters to the exit hall were two Acolytes. These were initiates of the Council's representatives, and ever did they wait for an opportunity to prove themselves to their Mentalists and achieve the higher status of Overseer. They both were very much alike: tall, scrawny and dull, with bright, shiny bald heads that glistened from the ceiling lamps light; and they both wore their long crimson mantles, pressed and spotless, adorned with two thin bronze stripes that fell from their frail shoulders to the floor.
They both greeted him with a short bow, ignoring the girl altogether:
'Salutations, Specialist Von Howitt,' said one with the distinctive dull voice of a Council representative. 'I am Byrne and I represent Mentalist Faust.'
'As you are aware, the Council of Mentalists is impressed with your contributions to the Project,' said the other with an identical dull voice. 'I am Bourne and I represent Mentalist Faust.'
'Mentalist Faust is particularly impressed with the progress you have made with specimen A,' added Byrne, glancing at the girl as if she were merely an object; she kept looking down as Von Howitt had instructed her. 'It is written on your last report that during all trials, she did not take action unless commanded and obeyed every command without developing an emotional response.'
'Mentalist Faust has requested that we observe the scheduled experiment,' said Bourne. 'If your findings are correct, she might prove to be stable enough for the next phase. 
Byrne was intently staring at Von Howitt, studying his reactions, reading his thoughts. Von Howitt tried his best to clear his mind until an adequate reasoning would unconsciously arise.
'We are on time, are we not?' the Acolyte asked, intrigued by the long pause.
 Von Howitt cast a sudden cordial smile at Byrne, 'Certainly, Acolytes. Please follow me to the Observations Room.'
He led them across the exit hall, walking past the stairwell access door and the magtubes without so much as thinking about them. He then crossed under another bulky blast door back into another main corridor and soon after, he stopped at the entrance to Test Chamber number one, which was adjacent to the corresponding Observations Room. After authenticating his clearance on the touchscreen, the door opened to a small Sterilization Chamber. It had two mirrored windows on each side and was filled with showerheads on the ceiling. Opposite the entrance, was the airtight door that led to the chamber.
Raising one hand, Von Howitt invited them in.
The two Acolytes gazed into the tight Sterilization chamber and then cast a dubious gaze at Von Howitt.
'What is the purpose of entering the Test Chamber?' Bourne asked, while Byrne stared intently at Von Howitt.
'I find that observing specimens closely is far more instructive than behind a reinforced wall,' Von Howitt promptly answered, preventing his mind from thinking anything else. 'It is quite safe. And as I have mentioned on my report, she does not take action unless commanded.'
Bourne turned his head and looked at Byrne. Byrne looked back at him and then both turned their heads towards Von Howitt.
An eerie silence followed...
'Very well,' they both agreed.
Von Howitt stretched out his hand again and invited them to enter first, intently thinking about their higher status.
'I grant you entrance,' he said, his head bowing low.
Byrne nodded and entered with his head proudly raised. Bourne was next, but for a reason he never understood, he glanced at the girl just as he was stepping inside and realized that she was not wearing a restrictive collar. He stopped, halfway in halfway out, and stared inexpressively at Von Howitt. He then asked, and his tone was more demanding, seeming that an irrefutable command was being given:
'You will tell us Specialist Von Howitt, why this specimen is not wearing a restrictive collar.'
Von Howitt gazed at them both, silently, struggling to disobey the command. When he could resist no more, he answered firmly, 'Because I removed it.'
He had barely spoken when with all the strength he could muster he pushed Bourne into the chamber with such force that he crashed against Byrne and they both fell on the metallic floor with sound oompfs!
He quickly pressed the ''Emergency Close'' icon on the touchscreen and the door sealed itself in a split-second.
He had trapped them inside the Sterilization Chamber, for it had no touchscreen from the inside, but no door would keep them trapped for long, he knew. So, he grabbed the girl's hand, ran down the corridor and crossed under the opened blast door as fast as his age allowed, rushing into the exit hall towards the magtubes.
When he was just about to step into the bottomless shaft, the cylindrical door sealed in his face. Von Howitt turned around in dismay, only to see the blast doors hastily shut at the same time. In the blink of an eye the bright white exit hall eclipsed into a foreboding darkness. Red lights flashed from emergency lamps that were lowered from the ceiling, tinting the sealed hall in the warm color of blood.
Then, a slow alarm erupted. Its notes spread through the hall, resonated on its walls, and reached Von Howitt's ears, echoing in desperation.
With a jolt he spun around and repeatedly passed his Unit over the magtube touchscreen. ''Security breach on level minus ten: Containment procedures engaged.'' sounded Mother's stark warning throughout the condemned hall. Then he quickly ran to the adjacent door that led to the stairwell and introduced the Emergency Override code on the touchscreen. At his first attempt, the blue control panel turned red, flashing with the words ''Access denied: Lockdown engaged.''
He bashed the door in frustration. One meager centimeter of impermium was all that stood between them and their slow demise, but it was more than enough, he knew.
'There is nothing I can do,' he said gloomily. At a loss to think or act, he turned to the girl and wrapped his inconsolable arms around her.
'I am sorry my dear, I cannot get us out,' he said despondently. 'I am afraid we will be trapped here for a long, long time.'
The girl's only response was an unconcerned blue-eyed stare.
Von Howitt surrendered himself to a quiet lament, ceaselessly disturbed by the cadence of the alarm. And it was to that fateful sound, and immersed in despair, that he wished the door would open.
An impetuous force smashed against the solid impermium with a loud clank that overlapped the sound of the alarm. 
With a fright, Von Howitt raised his head and looked at the door. It seemed to have resisted whatever hit it. He calmly backed off, grabbing the girl's hand.
An even louder clamor bellowed through the hall when another force hammered the unyielding door, which resisted once again before his intimidated stare. He dreaded for whoever was trying to get in, since he knew whoever it was, they were most likely coming for them. Without any warning, the door started to open on one side, cracking, shrieking, buckling, as its brakes and binders attempted to keep it sealed. When it stopped, the door had yielded to the length of a narrow slit just wide enough for a pyrean to squeeze through.
Von Howitt looked through the gap. On the stairwell at the other side, a still, dark quietness welcomed them in. He stared at the girl and saw a dim glow fading from her blue eyes.
'Was that you?' he asked, his voice filled with wonder.
The girl gently nodded, keeping her inexpressive stare.
Von Howitt's face lit with an old wrinkly smile. 'You never cease to amaze me.' Grateful, he kissed her forehead and spoke, 'Let us leave, quickly!'
Once he crossed the slit, he led the girl up the stairwell, never looking back. And as he fled from what could have been his tomb he heard the door behind hastily seal itself again. Of the fate of the two Acolytes and the young Specialist, nothing was ever said, and they wound remain in that tomb, forevermore.

...he could have commanded her to open the door...
He could have, but he would not dare, for he had made a vow to never control her again. The thought of assuming control of her was too abominable for him, even if to those he was trying to escape from she was the perfect instrument of creation, and destruction...

***

A great double-door bathed in gold was swung open into an ample round chamber. The strong radiance coming from outside revealed at the entrance a tall pyrean bearing a mantle with two gleaming silver stripes on each shoulder. The face was hidden in darkness as the figure bowed his bald head.
'An incident is in progress in the Project facility. Specialist Von Howitt is attempting to escape with specimen A,' said a male voice said in a monotonous tone.
'I am aware,' said a calm voice coming from inside. 'Measures are being taken. You may leave.'
'By your will,' said the pyrean before leaving.
As slowly and silently as they had opened, the doors were closed, rendering the chamber to a silent gloom.
'As it was meant to be,' the voice muttered.
It was coming from a figure looming above an ample semicircle desk that stood in front of a round window; beyond it was the darkened skyline of Darm. He was at the highest levels of Netcore, a privilege granted only to those who were part of the Council of Mentalists. His long crimson mantle spanned from a crimson carpet up to a wide tall collar that covered his nape. On his shoulders were two golden stripes that stretched down to his feet. He had short gray hair, apart from the top of his head which was bald and had a pale complexion. He was a Mentalist, one of the seven that formed the Council of Mentalists, governors of Darm. 
'Wollen, meet me at the entrance. Boros will come as well,' he commanded. His voice was smooth and sharp, seeming untainted by age or sickness. Whoever listened to it felt it as compelling as the entrancing murmur of a hypnotist; it stripped all the surroundings and ensnared the listener's undivided attention.
Floating above the desk, was the holoprojection of a pyrean with a maimed face. He was not something that had ever been seen by a darmian, one whose existence had not yet been terminated, that is. He was a cybernetic organism, a blend of life and machinery. Half of his deformed face was covered with a metallic plate and a dark monocle sprouted from his decayed flesh in the place of a left eye. Its reddish lips were chapped, covering pointy and rotten teeth. His voice was the opposite of that of the Mentalist's.
'We will meet you there, Master,' he said, and his voice was vicious and unnatural, as if all the foulness in the world had corrupted him.
The connection was severed, and his heinous face disappeared. 
In one swift movement, the crimson figure turned to leave the chamber. 'So predictable,' he said before leaving his quarters.

...who is this Mentalist...
He is Vittas, and he is responsible for all the harm that befell upon you during your time in Darm. But the harm he would soon inflict would be upon the unsuspecting Specialist escorting the specimen to freedom.

***

'We are almost there,' said Von Howitt to the girl as he panted up the stairwell. A restless screech of a locking mechanism came to his ears like a chime of hope as he climbed the last flight of stairs.
He and the girl had reached the minus one level of the Project Facility, where its access door had been craftily blocked with a metallic beam that had been pre-emptively placed on the frame to prevent the sliding-door from closing. They entered the chamber and the Specialist removed the beam, allowing the door to shut itself.
After crossing the access hall where the magtube entrance stood, they entered a dark broad chamber and quickly became surrounded by a loud cacophony of machinery at work. They were in one of the maintenance chambers of the facility and it was filled with an assortment of rumbling pumps, droning hydrogen engines, water tanks and steaming tubes that erupted from the machinery, climbed the walls, and pierced through the ceiling and flooring. Von Howitt navigated his way across the machinery until he and the girl arrived at the other end of the chamber, where a decommissioned service entrance four meters wide and two meters tall connected directly to the exterior. The impermium door was firmly sealed, its touchscreen deactivated, and by the look of its sturdy constitution, it would not seem possible to open it with mere strength.
He led the girl towards the coolant pump closest to the entrance, which was tirelessly working to pump liquid Helium to every laboratory in the facility. Stopping before its interface, he turned to the girl, 'My dear, you will wait here. When I ask you to open the coolant drain valve you will press the override icon on this touchscreen and then you will wait for my command to close it. Do you accept my request?' he asked the girl and smiled kindly.
She nodded innocently.
Von Howitt grabbed a pair of gloves from a tool booth next to the entrance, disappeared into a gap behind the ice crusted pump and the wall, and came back holding the metallic edge of a long hose that was attached to the coolant pump. He then dragged the weighty hose towards the service entrance, stopping ten feet away from it.
'Open the valve,' he shouted above the ruckus, pointing the hose to the service entrance and keeping himself at a safe distance.
The girl nodded.
When she pressed the icon, a warning flashed through the pump's small touchscreen: ''Danger: Liquid Helium drain valve activated.''
The girl pressed the override sensor below the status display, and after a rumbling sound, a torrent of ice came coursing from the pump's drainpipe and through the outer layer of the hose, condensing the air in clouds of vapor as it headed towards the nozzle held by Von Howitt. The liquid burst haphazardly against the door and the vapor produced from the thermal shock enveloped the room in a dense mist that devoured the entire floor and quickly rose up to his knees. Gushing from the nozzle and splattering upon the door, it froze the resilient impermium and once it started to spread dangerously close to his feet, Von Howitt asked the girl to close the drain valve. 
The drainage slowly came to a halt. When the mist subsided, the indestructible door was but a frozen block of metal. 
The hose disappeared in the lingering mist when Von Howitt threw it to the floor. He removed the gloves and ran to a tool board overlapping the wall of the small booth. With much effort he picked up the biggest and most robust wrench. Its heaviness matched its sturdiness for it was made from an outdated compound of steel - it was resistant but needlessly heavy. However, for the extraordinary circumstance, its weight suited Von Howitt all too well.
He ran to the frozen door with steadfast resolve and smashed! the wrench against it with all his strength. The impact released a loud metallic clang. As if it was made of ice, the frozen surface shattered into a thousand pieces that played a chaotic symphony of bright notes as they fell randomly on the mist-filled floor.
At the point of impact, a shallow crater was dug in the thick layer of impermium. Almost immediately, Mother's voice sounded between the rumbling noises of the machinery: ''Security breach in the maintenance level: Containment procedures engaged.'' 
The warning of Mother roused a desperate sense of urgency in Von Howitt. He cocked the wrench as far back as he could and uncoiling his hips he threw the wrench at the dented door, shattering the remainder of the layer with an unstoppable momentum and tearing a gap wide enough to cross, as the frozen shards of metal fell on the floor.
Silence followed, and from the gap that had been carved, came the cold dark breeze of the night outside.
From the outside, a pyrean peered into the chamber, frantically turning his head as he attempted to discern anything through the vapor that escaped to the cold atmosphere. When he recognized Von Howitt's wrinkly face, he said nervously, 'Joseph! Stalkers have already been deployed! We must hurry!'
 Von Howitt turned his stern gaze to the girl, who stood calmly beside him, ever watching, ever listening, and spoke in a grave tone, 'My dear, since your birth I took care of you as a father would a daughter. I watched with pride as you grew to become the lovely girl you are today. My only wish was that I could look after you in a place far from harm, but that will remain a wish forever,' he said, and his eyes moistened with sadness. 'Now, I can but be content with the knowledge that I have done all I can to help you reach that place.'
'Joseph, we must leave!' said the pyrean outside, stretching out his arm.
Von Howitt calmy spoke to the girl, 'This is Nicholas. He is a reliable friend, and he will guide you there. I send you to a cold dangerous world, but I have taught you everything that will allow you to survive. Now go and be safe, this is my last request.'
'Yes, Specialist Von Howitt,' she answered softly.
He kissed her forehead and watched her leave through the gap on the shattered door, with the help of Nicholas.
Then, Nicholas stretched out his arm to Von Howitt, 'Please, hurry.'
Von Howitt did not move, 'I will buy you some time from this side. It falls onto you to lead her to safety. Do not let them take her,' he pleaded. 'For her sake, and for the sake of us all.'
Nicholas gave him a grim stare, 'I will do my best,' he answered and leaned away from the gap. 
Under the roofless night, shadowed by the tall dark facade of the facility, he pulled a belt from his backpack and tied it to the girl's waist.
'This is a Radiation Dispersion Device ,' he said to her. 'With it, we will pass unnoticed by the stalkers' sensors,' he then removed a pair of dark glasses and placed them on her nose and ears. 'These are spectral lenses. They will allow you to see through the dispersion field.'
The girl looked inside the gap in the door, and with a calm innocent voice spoke, 'I bid my leave, Specialist Von Howitt.'
'Be safe,' he said.
A single tear rolled down his cheek, as his feelings grew to a level he believed they would never grow again. It was the last time he would see her, and he felt terribly sad, yet he could not cry. His emotions were all but dried up and all that he could give her was a saddened stare.
'It has been a privilege, Joseph,' said Nicholas, as his body slowly faded into air.
'It has been a privilege,' Von Howitt repeated as they vanished.

Slowly, he turned his back, walking past the machines in short broken steps and into the access hall. He heard the distinct droning sound of the magtube hovering somebody inside it. He turned to it and waited, and watched, and listened. 
The sliding door opened.
The first things that stepped out were two dreadful creatures made of metal and flesh, whose maimed faces twisted into eerie smiles once they saw the Specialist. Calmly stepping out behind them, far more appealing but no less intimidating, was a Mentalist bearing his crimson mantle and golden stripes falling down each shoulder. His grey eyes gazed upon the Specialist and his thin lips trembled with satisfaction.
'Vittas,' Von Howitt softly muttered in his last breath.
He suddenly felt his limbs falter from head to toe. His body fell to the floor, his eyes opened wide, his face filled with helpless wonder.
Silence came about him.
Darkness overtook him.
And the insipid taste of death became his last memory, as his consciousness slipped away into nothingness.

...why have you shown me this...
I have brought you to see these memories so that you may better understand what I am to show you next. For it was during this night, while you lay in sleep, that Joseph Von Howitt, a pyrean you never came to know, sacrificed his life to free the one that would give purpose to yours.
