Fifth memory - Anatomy of a virus

[...] and the economy shall be based on the awarding and removal of Credits, the sole currency of the metropolis. The sentient Artificial Intelligence shall continuously monitor the performance of every darmian, from their early stage as an infant up to their final stage as a citizen, and regardless of the stage, the better a darmian will be at performing his tasks, the greater the Credits she shall award them with. As a result of this economic system, the sentient AI shall be able to maintain a stable balance between the requirements and aptitudes of its inhabitants, ensure equal opportunities to everyone, and instill in them from an early age a reward-based mentality that shall greatly enhance productivity.

An excerpt from Annex #03: Currency and Reward Directives; 
Division of Darmian Affairs under the authority of Mentalist Silas;


The next week flew by as the expectations regarding citizenship grew. The turn to citizenship was a decisive event for all darmians, for it was the moment they were required to choose the occupation they would perform for the rest of their existence. Therefore, along with your growing expectation, grew an even greater dread, for you had not yet decided on an occupation that would award your existence with a sense of accomplishment. You hoped however, that when the time came, you would make the right choice, and the Gathering was just the right occasion to find some inspiration, as it represented your last opportunity for entertainment, and maybe one of the last moments you had to enjoy your time with many of your colleagues. As the week stretched on, one day was left before the day of the Gathering.
That morning, the metropolis awoke to the usual sound of citizens flowing in the streets and Boulevards, on their way to their occupations, like orderly rivers coursing through ridges of tall permaglass. Most of them were on foot and all were distinguishable by the color of their uniforms: green for apprentices, yellow for Manufacturing and Spaceport administrators, violet for Hub administrators and mentors, and white for the elite citizens, the Project Specialists. These bore stern faces; their tall, slender bodies clad in white filing over the white marbled pavement as an embodiment of the metropolis herself.
As you strolled down the colorful East Boulevard with a nutrient bar in one hand, you felt the presence of your Unit as she warned you of a communications request from Haji. You conveyed the thought to accept it, and you felt your mind expand beyond your thoughts.
'If you do not slow down, we will not be able to catch up with you,' Haji's faceless voice echoed in your mind.
'Where are you?' you thought as if you were speaking to him.
'Look behind you,' his voice answered.
You looked back and Haji and Sophie saw ten meters away, dressed in their green uniforms, walking through the myriad of colors. You stopped and waited for them, taking the last bite on the nutrient bar, which was becoming as cold and tasteless as snow.
'Salutations, Haji,' you greeted each one with a bow. 'Salutations, Sophie.'
Since the day Haji revealed his affection for her in the Academy hallway - however indirect as it might have been - he and Sophie had become close companions. At times they would exchange smiles and laughter, and even an occasional hug whenever they were out of sight of sentinels and of the draconian scrutiny of Council representatives, for any gesture of intimacy was deemed as unnecessary body contact as was considered a breach of the Directives for proper conduct.
'Salutations, Alan,' Sophie cordially replied. 'Ready for a new day of indoctrination?'
You nodded, demonstrating an odd enthusiasm for the perspective, 'As ready as I can be.'
As you strode on, walking behind a straight line of mentors and apprentices entering the Academy, you whispered to Haji with a sidelong glance, 'The Gathering is tomorrow.'
'I know,' he answered smiling.
Walking past the two dark-blue sentinels guarding its western entrance, you entered the vast white plaza. Before you, was a majestic, curved building with its inner facade facing the Netcore. Like all buildings in Darm, its surface was covered in permaglass, save for the tall frame that sustained it, which was made of glinting impermium .
Climbing its wide stairway and crossing the wide-open doors, you followed the two orderly rows of apprentices entering the building. Although you were many, you did not hear a sound when you entered the hallway, save for the sound of footsteps on its pristine marble floor.
The indoctrination rooms were aligned throughout the inner arch of the hallway with their corresponding number marked above their entrance. When you entered the ''#465'' indoctrination room, you saw the mentor of Fundaments of Existence standing on the dais in front of her apprentices while waiting patiently for the signal to begin indoctrination; sitting at their desks some apprentices exchanged quiet conversations. When a clear sharp note echoed through the corridors and into the indoctrination room, the sliding door behind sealed shut and the apprentices' murmurs faded into an absolute silence. The mentor smiled and approached the first row of desks, bowing afterwards.
'Salutations, apprentices. Today we shall begin our final theme before your rightful admittance to citizenship. Once we have completed it, you shall have an extensive understanding of the pathogen that forever changed the Pyre's genetic code.'
To most of the apprentices, the mentor had an unremarkable voice, but to your ears, her voice was kind and enthralling, much unlike the dull scratchy voice of mentor Levine.
'Who amongst you can share some knowledge about the retrovirus that put an end to the Antiga Pyre?' she asked.
A few hands rose above the silent audience, belonging to apprentices that placidly waited to be called on to answer. Amongst them was Sophie's, and her eyes glinted as she restrained her excitement.
'Very well, we have four apprentices who have prepared this indoctrination. Those of you who have raised your hand, shall take turns to provide the answer in a sequential fashion. Apprentice Lauren, do you care to begin?' she asked turning her attention to Heidi.
Heidi lowered her hand and sat straight in her second-row desk, placing one hand on top of the other, and answered with her delicate voice:
'The entity known as PIn-T2, was a non-lethal retrovirus whose transmission to the host was achieved through any liquid medium. It could be absorbed through the respiratory system by means of airborne aerosols released from a contaminated host, digestive system by means of ingestion of contaminated water or food containing water, or its most effective mean, the transmission of fluids though bodily contact which led to direct absorption by the circulatory system.'
'Very well,' interrupted the mentor. 'Apprentice Adams, you may continue,' she said pointing to Andrew, an apprentice with whom you were not very well acquainted, even though he always carried a friendly expression.
Andrew spoke with proud confidence, which by itself demonstrated his desire in completing his apprenticeship as one of the top ranked apprentices, 'The retrovirus belonged to the Oxygen-Nitrogen based macromolecules, containing a reactive strand of nucleotides. Its organic structure was highly unstable due to the presence of ionized phosphate groups on its skeleton, which in conjunction with its sedimentation velocity allowed it to adhere with great ease to the eukaryotic cells of the Pyre. Once it reached the circulatory system, the retrovirus penetrated the cells by attaching itself to the nucleotides of the genetic code.'
'Well done, apprentice Adams,' the mentor congratulated.
Andrew gave her a proud look while the mentor directed her attention to Sophie, 'Apprentice Andersen, you may continue.'
'The adherence process of the viral RNA strand to the DNA molecules of the host's cells took place in the S-phase, where simply put, a cell's DNA molecules split into two and form two other DNA molecules. The adherence of the viral strand was made possible due to the enzyme integrase that allowed the retrovirus to become part of a cell's DNA through a reverse transcriptase process. As a result, when the S-phase was completed, the cell entered the mitosis phase and formed two new cells carrying the viral DNA strand. These infected cells would then carry on replicating more infected cells through the regular cell cycle. For this reason, the enzyme integrase was one of the fundamental components of the retrovirus, as it served as the tool that allowed it to become part of the cell's genetic code and establish a lifelong infection in the host.'
Haji nodded at her, and his lips moved, saying ''Superb''. 
She gave him a proud smile.
'Well presented, apprentice Andersen,' and the mentor bowed to her. 'Apprentice Emerson you may conclude.'
Francis sank down on his chair and answered timidly, 'I have not attained much more knowledge of the subject, mentor Elias. What I learned by inquiring Mother is that after a new host had been infected, its cells reproduced the retrovirus macromolecule which in turn would release itself into the environment and find new hosts through liquid medium, as Heidi mentioned.'
'Thus, completing the cycle,' mentor Elias added. Her green eyes glinted with satisfaction and her slender face was filled with a gentle smile. 'Well done. I am proud of my apprentices.'
...she was kind...and beautiful...
She was. It was since your earliest days as an apprentice that you nurtured an uncommon admiration for her. To you, every aspect of her was pleasant and proportional. Her white teeth aligned perfectly behind her thin red lips; her amber eyes warmed your heart every time she looked upon you; her captivating smile carried your thoughts away to bold fantasies. Her firm breasts filled her tight violet uniform, her waist was as smooth as a wave function, her fertile hips and her lean thighs urged you to ---
...leave my fantasies out of this and get on with this meaningless subject...
Forgive me. I shall resume. However, this subject was not as meaningless as you might consider. Within it, was an understanding to the Torment which no one except Gadim was able to fully grasp. He saw the retrovirus in its entirety, and he saw how it corrupted life, turning your kind into something that I never intended you to be.
The mentor turned to the window-wall and interacted with it, using the neurolink that rested comfortably on her right ear. The view of the Academy's inner plaza was replaced by an opaque screen of information related to the Fundaments of Existence doctrine, whose seemingly endless topics filled the wall from top to bottom. Using Thought Interaction, she accessed the topic ''PIn-S2'' and then the sub-topic ''Epidemiology''.
On the screen were displayed several images demonstrating a sequence of the infection process of the retrovirus. In one of the images, the macromolecule seemed to be in interaction with an isolated eukaryotic cell; in another was plainly visible the strand of nucleotides that Heidi had described. The images seemed to be divided in four stages and the mentor began to explain the first stage, mentioning with approval the common points that her apprentices had presented. Arriving at the second stage, she sat behind her desk and continued:
'On the second stage of incubation, we can see that the affected cells of the organism now comprise over seventy percent of the cell population, with a prevalence of approximately thirty percent on the bone tissue. In this stage, the group of signs and symptoms were still inexistent or unspecific. Consequently, it was still not possible to ascertain without clinical trial whether an organism was infected or not.'
Her soft voice was so alluring that you followed her every move and every word, from her calm gestures pointing towards the three-dimensional images, to her occasional pauses to assess whether she could continue or whether she had to explain once more.
'On entering the third stage, the incubation had successfully reached the point of irreversibility, and any attempt to eradicate the retrovirus resulted in the destruction of its host. This irreversibility is one of the two reasons why this pathogen was so effective at spreading throughout the globalized societies of the antigans. The other reason was that the host was already infectious during the incubation process, meaning that the retrovirus was free to replicate itself and spread to new hosts without any signs of infection being displayed by the carrier.'
After mentor Elias highlighted the last stage of the incubation process, the screen reproduced an animation of the retrovirus neutralizing the cell's defenses and attaching itself to a DNA strand. Its effectiveness was both admirable and disturbing.
She pointed one finger to a segment of the altered DNA, 'Once fully lodged inside the still asymptomatic host, the viral RNA strand migrated from the cells' nucleus to the cells' mitochondria, lodging itself in the DNA of this structure. The incision of the vRNA in the cell mitochondria caused a chain mutation of mitochondrial DNA, creating a pattern with a specific codon sequence known to be the Torment trigger sequence. The mitochondria's more resistant RNA molecules were unable as well to prevent this mutation due to the hypersecretion of oxygen reactive composites by the retrovirus, which neutralized any attempt to repair the damaged DNA strands. When the fourth stage was complete, the mitochondrial DNA became viral, triggering the start of an irreversible chain reaction,' said the mentor, pointing to the schematics where the viral RNA performed an alteration of the mitochondrial DNA. 'The first of our Guiding Father's accomplishments, was to discover that the transition from the incubation phase to the Torment phase followed a chain recoding of the DNA that would only commence once the mitochondria population of the host was entirely contaminated, which means that the Torment phase would wait until the incubation phase had been completed,' she said and waited for the apprentices to finish their annotations. 'There are no accurate predictions of the time span of the incubation phase, but models run by Mother suggest that this process lasted for twenty to thirty years, and we now know that this viral RNA was also able to infect the host's gametes during meiosis, meaning that any offspring would be equally infected. This was one of our Guiding Father's most important discoveries, as it allowed us to entirely understand the cause of the extinction of the Antiga Pyre. It is believed that once an offspring from an infected antigan attempted to breed with a non-infected antigan, the result would be an infertile hybrid. This means that throughout the Age of Obscurity, as all the surviving populations became infected, the Antiga Pyre withered away and eventually became extinct.'
She granted the apprentices some time to convey into their neuropads what she had said. Then, she added, answering to some keen eyes, 'This is one of the reasons why all darmians are fertilized and bred in controlled laboratory conditions and then appointed to caretakers. However, it is still a futile effort to reverse our offspring's genetic code to that of our ancestors. It may even prove impossible, since the original code was lost when the antigans became extinct.'
You raised your hand, as much out of curiosity as to grab her attention. When she nodded to you, you asked, 'Why were the antigans unable to remove the genetic flaw from their gene pool. Were they unable to use genetic programming?'
'That is a good question, apprentice Balthazar,' she answered as you welcomed her tender gaze. 'They were aware of genetic programming, but not even that was enough to stop the virus. The reason is that the retrovirus did not perform a linear mutation of the Antiga Pyre's DNA. Instead, it unevenly spread throughout their genetic code in small and very discrete codon sequences, some of them redundant, others self-reconstructive, and others seemingly normal, yet all interlinked through a process that was only discovered by the Guiding Father, after their extinction.'
'That was one smart germ!' Jack allowed himself to shout.
The class erupted in a half-suppressed laughter.
Mentor Elias calmly gazed at him, 'It was indeed, apprentice Thompson, and that is why it was successful in leading an entire species to self-extinction. You should have some respect for it, and for our ancestors.'
One by one, the apprentices quieted down, gazing at the mentor in solemn contemplation.
'My apologies, mentor Elias. I did not mean to disrespect them,' Jack spoke embarrassedly to the silent room.
'Apology accepted,' she said, throwing him a courteous smile.
After a brief pause, the mentor moved on to the next topic: ''Pathophysiology.'' 
The lights in the room waned and she continued the indoctrination on the holoprojector, letting the morning light into the room through the shaded window-wall:
'We shall now address the syndrome that the Nova Pyre has come to refer to as the Torment. These set of signs and symptoms, commonly known as manifestations, are the reason why from antigan civilization there are only buried remnants, broken artifacts, and weather-beaten ruins.'
Hovering above the holoprojector, emerged a physical representation of a male antigan, slowly rotating along a vertical axis. Its body was stubby and hairy, its skin soft and pale, its face beardy and bestial.
...they were very different from pyreans...
Evolution from Antiga Pyre to Nova Pyre produced mild to severe changes to the Pyre's constitution. Some of the changes were discrete, such as the loss of all hair in both the male and female body, apart from the head, eyebrows and eyelashes. Other were more noticeable: they became taller and slenderer, and their face uncommonly fairer and more delicate, changes that occurred because attractiveness became the sole criterion of natural selection between pyreans during the Age of Obscurity.
'The Torment can be divided into two sets of symptoms,' said mentor Elias. 'The Localized Morphological Manifestations and the Widespread Morphological Manifestations, which, as the name suggests, are either localized or widespread alterations in our body appearance. These can be temporary, or in more severe cases permanent, and are a result of the change in the genetic code responsible for our appearance.'
Mentor Elias continued to explain the Torment, using the antigan model to demonstrate different manifestations. Your astonishment grew increasingly as the model assumed various grotesque forms. On one of the Localized Manifestations, the model suffered shocking alterations to the arms; these increased in size, changing shape and radically changing their texture and color to a rugged and reddish glow.
When she moved on to the Widespread Morphological Manifestations, your astonishment turned into disbelief. On one of the first manifestations, the model grew to almost three times its size and his skin turned into a ridged shell with a brownish hue; his already brutish face became heinously deformed, the lips thick and dark, the eyes deeply burrowed into the skull as if they had been sucked in by some incomprehensible force, and his hair had extended down to its body and thickened to become a layer of menacingly sharp thorns. On one of the last manifestations the model became utterly repulsive, its skin turning into a sickening green paste, and becoming so languid it seemed to melt off its body; its limbs were reduced to large tentacles, and on its edges grew blotches and pustules, some of them erupting with a yellow slimy fluid. No apprentice was unmoved by the manifestation. Many ended up averting their eyes, and Marlene, an apprentice with a peculiarly pale skin-tone, which had become white as marble at that point, ended up throwing up her breakfast on the floor. It was after that incident that mentor Elias decided to stop the demonstrations and interrupted the indoctrination, allowing the apprentices to recover and share their thoughts, while she accompanied Marlene to the washroom.
You took the time to talk to Haji, stealing his attention from his neuropad, 'What do you think of this?' you asked feeling both curious and suspicious.
Haji gave you an upset look, 'It troubles me to know that we have the Torment inside us. Without the Personal Identification Unit, we would be vulnerable to it. Our Guiding Father might not be as great as he claims to be, but we still must thank him for what he has accomplished. He helped the Pyre reclaim its place in Artica and allowed its societies to rebuild once more.
You looked at your neuropad as the image of the manifestation rotated inside it, 'Maybe you're right...' you yielded, your suspicion turned to doubt.
...what a grand deception...

A little while after, mentor Elias returned with Marlene at her side. The apprentice was grasping her stomach, but her skin was a little less pale, which led you to assume she was feeling a little better. After dragging her feet back to her desk, she sat, quite slowly. The mentor returned to her place alongside the holoprojector and waited until the apprentices returned to their silent awareness before proceeding:
'I would like to end this indoctrination with a quick note. As you are aware, any change that occurs on a given system, however erratic it may seem, obeys a specific set of facts, or laws. It is only because of laws that we are able to predict the motion of the stars and galaxies, the weather patterns that determine Artica's climate, the cycle of our existence, and yes, even the Torment,' she said and became quiet, seeming intended to incite curiosity. After sitting behind her desk and quietly conveying some thoughts to her neuropad, she continued, 'As such, I wish you to research the set of laws related to the Torment as they are presented in Gadim's Theorem regarding Phenotype Rearrangement which shall be the theme for the upcoming indoctrination. The criteria for Credits awarded shall be based on the knowledge of the topic, clarity of the presentation and conclusions drawn from the research. The respective Credits are five, ten and fifteen.' She rose from her seat and walked towards the edge of the dais, 'Does anyone need me to clarify any subject?'
A multitude of arms were raised. 
Given the short amount of time before the signal, mentor Elias allowed only one question. To be impartial in her choice, she used her neurolink to generate a random name and then present it on the walls so that everyone could see. Leonard was the apprentice Mother chose, highlighting his name in big letters on the walls.
Leonard was not the type of apprentice that would actively participate in any discussion. Throughout the years he had developed - nearly at a mastery level - the ability to pay attention to both the indoctrinations and Heidi, an apprentice he had become irresistibly infatuated with. During any given indoctrination he would devote his eyes to the mentor, and his ears to Heidi, who was sitting next to him. When he saw his name floating on the walls, he felt his secret had been discovered, and Heidi's eyes and ears had now turned to him. He could not help but feel that he was being punished somehow, since now he had no other choice but to become the center of her attention.
He asked with a tremulous, shrill voice, 'Mentor Elias, I understood how the retrovirus managed to spread throughout the Antiga Pyre and create us. And I also understood what manifestations are. But what I did not understand - he glanced at Heidi before continuing - or at least not too well, is why the Torment has so many different manifestations.'
Mentor Elias was delighted with the apropos question. It had been the first time Leonard had participated in her indoctrinations and yet he had managed to identify the mystery behind the Torment.
'That is an excellent question apprentice Leonard. No doubt some of you are unable to understand the reason as to the enormous diversity of manifestations - some apprentices nodded their heads. - Unfortunately, the reason can only be revealed to those who succeed in becoming Project Specialists.'
Leonard's satisfaction waned into an expression of disappointment; he knew that with his credits he would never be assigned to that occupation. Conversely, a look satisfaction grew in some faces - Heidi's included - for they knew they would surely achieve Specialist Class.
'However!' mentor Elias added, pouting her lips slyly, 'one could speculate - her eyes probed the ceiling - that there could be a correlation between these manifestations and the way we experience emotions.'
Bewilderment is the most appropriate word to describe the look on the apprentice's faces, yours included. No one could understand the correlation; some found it so surprising that they raised their hands to ask for a more comprehensive explanation.
'I would be delighted to engage in further speculation,' mentor Elias continued, 'regretfully, this more confusing than explanatory conjecture will have to suffice.'
The indoctrination ended a few seconds later, leaving the room full of disappointed apprentices. One by one, they rolled up their neuropads and packed them in their utility belts, leaving the room orderly while engaged in quiet arguments. Mentor Elias remained at her desk, conveying thoughts to her neurolink. Heidi approached the desk and attempted - yet unsuccessfully - to ask for an explanation. As vain as the attempt might have been, for Leonard it was the appropriate excuse to walk up to her side and start a conversation. And so, he did, shyly.
