Ninth memory - Of young and old ancestors

[...] Apart from the Panoramic Transports there shall be three other transportation devices in the metropolis. To avoid traffic overload at surface level, every cargo that requires transportation shall be sent through the Underground Translocation Network. The principles for teleportation using quantum entanglement and quantum computing have long been discovered, yet we are still unable to apply them to any sentient organism without terminating its existence. Given that no organic life shall travel through it, this network will be equipped with Matter Translocation Devices which will act in principle as teleporters, disintegrating non-organic objects and transporting their particles through underground conduits to the Materialization Chambers located in every building on Darm, which will rematerialize them into their original form. The second and third transportation devices shall be the glider and the hoverboard. These shall be personal hovering transports, the gliders granted to citizens, the hoverboards granted to apprentices, and they shall be used at their own discretion, given that they confine their travels to the paths built for that purpose and not breach the Directives regarding proper use of transportation devices.

An excerpt from Annex #23: Cargo and personal transportation devices;
Division of Urban Planning under the authority of Mentalist Torval;


The carefully measured dosage of sleep antagonists released into your bloodstream woke you up and brought you almost immediately to a mild alertness. You slowly opened your eyes, lazily stretched out your arms and raised yourself to a sitting position. 
The shading effect of the window was lowered to ten percent, allowing the first rays of Mithras to seep into your room and bathe you with its soft warm light. 
Out of nothing, the small avatar of Evander popped before your nose.
'Good morning, Master!' said a loud cheerful voice. 'Ready for yet another brilliant day of indoctrination, study and productivity?'
'Not really,' you muttered drowsily while you scraped sticky secretions off your eyes.
You looked down to your left and saw Hampy sitting at your side on the foamy mattress, looking up at you with as big of a cheerful expression as was possible for an automated robot. You patted his head and yawned.
'Come, now!' Evander cheered. 'The weather is sublime, and the forecast is an entire day of clear blue sky. As clear and blue as clear and blue can be, If I might add!'
When you realized what day it was, you sprang lively to your feet. 
'You're right!' you said.
Evander orbited around you at a dizzying speed. 'That's the attitude!'
You walked up to the wardrobe imbued on the wall and opened it, removing a pair of pants and a jacket from two separate drawers, and hastily put them on top of your exoderm. As you rushed, you dropped the jacket from the previous day on the floor. Hampy had stored it aside for cleaning and he yelped in anguish when he saw it on the carpet.
'My apologies,' you said courteously and picked up the jacket.
After clasping the magnets that held your uniform firmly pressed against your body, you said before leaving the room, 'Take care of each other.'
'Have a nice day, Master,' they both answered in unison.
As you descended the staircase to the entrance hall, you issued your Unit to establish a thought connection with Haji. Immediately after receiving the confirmation, you heard Haji's voice in your mind, 'We are almost at the sixth platform.'
'I am on my way,' you conveyed the thought.
'You should make haste or else you will arrive late at the indoctrination,' Haji answered.
'I'll catch up with you soon,' you conveyed the thought. 
You were just about to exit the residence when you glanced to the left. There, standing forgotten against the corner next to the sealed door was you hoverboard. Your eyes kindled with excitement. 'On second thought, I have a better idea. See you at the Academy.'
Haji guessed your idea, 'You are very fortunate. Mother still does not allow me to ride mine after our last incident. Don't do anything foolish. The hoverlanes are filled with gliders today.'
You grinned mischievously. 
'I will try not to,' was the last thought you conveyed to him.

Evander's description of the weather had been accurate. Not a single cloud was in the sky, and the thick snow that had claimed most of the white sidewalks during the night was now withdrawing to the bottom of the picket fences of the residences, where long white rows of ice melted in the morning rays.
The warm humming of your hoverboard echoed off your street, as you slowly hovered between the residences. The air was fresh and clear. From time to time, small blocks of snow fell from the residences when the breeze blew harder.
Once you reached one of the streets that led to the East Boulevard, you came across a long file of citizens standing on top of their gliders, filling the hoverlane in an orderly and patient manner - too patient for your liking. Their gliders were hardly impelling them forward, rather standing motionless one decimeter above the metallic lane as they leaned over the handles extending from the glider's round base to their waists.
Moments after, as you joined the sluggish line, anxiety began to churn your stomach. 'If I stay here any longer, I will miss the indoctrination,' you muttered to yourself.
You held on to that thought as you turned left on a perpendicular street. You hovered down a quiet block of residences and when you reached its end the result was the same: yet another hoverlane filled with yet another line of gliders listing lazily to the weight of their operators.
...the cloisters...go through the cloisters...
You crouched, set the eternium coils of your hoverboard to maximum power, and hopped out of the hoverlane, crossing the marble walkway into a small alleyway that led to a cloister, the large, enclosed area within a block of residences whose purpose was to allow its residents to relax outdoors, sitting on benches or strolling around its fountain. At this point, you were relying on the eternium field generated by your hoverboard to impel you through the magnetic fields generated by the Magnetization Towers, something a standard hoverboard was not powerful enough to do, but yours and Haji's were more than capable, after the few unofficial modifications you made to their capacitors, that is. The sole drawback was that, under too much strain, they could very well blow up at your feet and rocket you to the sky. However, that was something you hoped would never happen. Fortunately, it never did.
A cunning smile was outlined on your lips once you entered the cloister and realized it was empty as you had expected. You slowed down to a halt and activated the Thought Recognition Protocol of your Unit. You closed your eyes and conveyed a thought to it, 'Chart nearest course to the Eastern entrance of the Hub. Set path between cloisters and alleyways. Display map trajectory including location of every darmian within a thirty meter radius.'
You heard Mother's voice in your mind, ''Plot established. Conveying image to occipital lobe.''
An impalpable transparent map materialized before your eyes, overlapping the surroundings. On the upper left corner of the map, a compass with the North and South Magnetization Towers as its poles signaled your position relative to the metropolis. You turned yourself to the course along the snowy cloister, pointed to the narrow alleyway fifty meters ahead and leaned forward on the hoverboard while pressing its magnetic brakes with your heels. It started buzzing furiously. If it were teeming with anticipation or about to explode you could not tell. 
You remembered your friend's warning and your smile widened to a wicked grin. 'No point on riding a hoverboard if we can't have some fun.'
Just when you were about to fall over, you lifted your heels and the hoverboard took off in a flash. The acceleration was so intense than you were brought you to your knees as you darted through the cloister, into the alleyway, flying across the street like a sudden gust of wind and entering the next alleyway. You lifted yourself with great effort and struggled to keep your balance as you buzzed across a second and a third street, leaving a trail of snow behind. Tiny specks of water flew at your facemask when you passed the water fountains at the center of the cloisters and as you entered the fourth, on the shuddering map before you a thin wall of blue dots signaling gliders was displayed on the approaching street along with separated green dots of citizens on foot. Your better judgment urged you to slow down, but you were too excited to consider the consequences of colliding with citizen, although you had the presence of mind to conclude it involved a lot of pain. You sighted the street through the narrow alley ahead just as a citizen dressed in yellow crossed it. You quickly guessed the trajectory between the blue dots, crouched on the hoverboard, toughened your muscles and clutched your jaw and fists.
'There!'
In a roaring buzz the hoverboard bolted between two gliders, blindsiding their operators and throwing them to the ground. Before they even knew what had passed through you entered the next cloister leaving behind nothing but a cloud of snow.
You panted and trembled with excitement as your Unit warned you that a dangerous rush of adrenaline had been released into your bloodstream, suggesting a dosage of sedatives to counter the effect. You disregarded the suggestion and lowered your speed to half, struggling to calm yourself down. 
'That was close,' you said while trying to catch your breath.
Nearing the entrance to the East Boulevard, you received a message from Haji notifying you that something very unusual was happening at the Hub and it was best to be cautious. As you looked at the almost static columns of gliders pouring out from the streets and into the boulevard, you concluded that you had saved a fair amount of time. So, you decided to follow Haji's advice.
You stopped and dismounted from the hoverboard, placed it under your right arm and followed on foot, leisurely entering the Boulevard and walking along other citizens. There was an unusually high influx of citizens crowding the Boulevard, and as you gazed down towards the Hub, you noticed four long lines of citizens that stretched down the avenue. To your surprise, you saw that next to the tall ducts of the Air Intake Field surrounding the access to the Hub, the entry had been blocked by a tall plasma barrier . It seemed like a thin layer of undulating water, transparent and blue, and detachments of sentinels were supervising four narrow arch-like holes in it, where the lines of citizens slowly entered and exited the Hub. 
'No way...' you muttered to yourself, realizing that you would not get the indoctrination on time.
Impatiently jumping behind one of the lengthy queues of citizens, you began to wonder the consequences of arriving late. As far as you could recollect, there had not been any occasion where an apprentice arrived late at the academy, or any other darmian at their occupation for that matter. Darm was designed to be the most efficient system ever made. To that end, darmians had been trained at young age to follow the Directives as orderly as possible, and the Unit ensured that their metabolism was always kept in perfect balance. It was through that order, that progress was ensured. Still, it was the most unusual morning there was any memory of. You looked around you, trying to find some clue as to what was happening, and as you sluggishly followed the line down the Boulevard, you noticed an unusual glitter on the floor inside the Air Intake Field to your right.
...I know that bracelet...
Captivated by the reflection of the Mithras's light upon it, you stepped out of the line and approached the waist-high wall as casually as you could. You examined the small object from a distance. It was a small piece of metal connected to a strip. You thought for a second if whatever it was, was worth stepping inside the Air Intake Field and breach the Directives with so many citizens behind you. Then again, you thought it could offer some clue as to what was happening. You looked over your shoulder, to the queue you had just left. They seemed entirely absorbed in their effort to orderly walk towards the access point, as if they lacked any other purpose than entering the Hub. 
...go inside and pick it up...
No darmian in their sound judgment would enter an Air Intake Field, deliberately or not. But you felt so strangely compelled to that object, that without any other thought, you stepped over the fence and picked it up, only to quickly step back into the Boulevard. You clasped the object in your hand and returned to the orderly line. It seemed as if no one even noticed you, except for the citizen behind you, who gave you a surprised stare when you stepped in front of her. 
From your Unit's passive identifier, you knew her to be administrator Celine.
'My apologies, administrator Celine. I dropped something and am returning to the line,' you said, hoping she would leave the matter at that.
'Apology accepted. You may stay in front of me. Order ensures progress, apprentice Balthazar' said the middle aged pyrea and bowed.
'Order ensures progress, administrator Celine,' you returned the gesture and breathed a sigh of relief after you faced forward.
Holding the object as you followed the queue, you felt it soft to the touch. When you discretely opened your hand to examine it, you saw it was a thin and short white strip made of an elastic material. Firmly bound to it was a small metallic plate with the letter ''A''. On the edges of the strip, were the two ends of a magnetic clasp, both stamped with a smooth ellipse. When you tried the strip around your wrist you realized that when the clasps connected the two ellipses formed a prone 8.
...infinity...
With your thoughts wrapped around that image, you bumped against something soft.
When you looked up, you saw a tall middle aged darmian peering down at you wearing a white uniform. 'Pushing a citizen is considered a breach of the Directives for proper conduct, apprentice Balthazar,' he remarked, his apathetic stare revealing some indifference, yet his voice imprinted with subtle indignation. 'Were you not informed of that at the Academy?'
You identified his name through his Unit's signature and answered calmly while discretely stashing the elastic bracelet inside your utility belt, 'My apologies, Specialist Phelps. I was not aware that the line had stopped moving.'
Keeping his apathetic stare, the citizen answered before dismissing himself with a bow, 'Apology accepted. I understand that your distraction was a consequence of this exceptional delay. Order ensures Progress, apprentice Balthazar.'
'Order ensures Progress, administrator Phelps,' you answered bowing.
Like everyone else, you decided to pay attention to the queue in front to avoid drawing more attention to yourself. You secured the hoverboard under your right arm, and after waiting for your turn, a while that lasted less than you had anticipated, you crossed the checkpoint between the two rows of blue tinted sentinels, which examined you from top to bottom using their sensors, hidden beneath their featureless visors. They bore no weaponry of any sort - for their purpose was solely to be Mother's eyes and ears - but they were resilient, protected by an impervious layer of graphene from thin feet to light head. On their chest, they bore a silver insignia stamped with the golden tetrahedron, the Darmian Security Division symbol. 
Crossing between the rows of sentinels, you asked them for the reason behind the heightened security, but they did not answer. They were following Mother's protocol in silence.

Inside the Hub, security was even heavier. The bright clinking and clanking of the clockwork march of metallic feet could be heard on every walkway of every lane, while a few dozen meters above the D.S.D. drones ferreted the Hub with their infallible sensors.
With no time to ponder the reason for such scrutiny, you rushed past the entrance to the Academy. After crossing the front courtyard and entering the vast empty hallway, you stored the hoverboard on an automated shelf near the entrance and headed straight for your indoctrination room. 
When you entered, you interrupted mentor Gordon who was explaining the current situation to the filled room. He was a relatively young citizen of medium stature and a peculiar long face. His violet jacket was pressed tightly around his neck and his neurolink was perched on one of his big ears. You bowed silently and sat down.
'As I was saying,' he resumed disquietingly loud, 'Mentalist Vittas instructed us to clarify to you the circumstances concerning the plasma barrier around the Hub,' he paused and then resumed in an eloquent manner, for he had rehearsed the speech before the indoctrination. 'This past evening, a Torment outbreak occurred in one of the Project Facility laboratories. Mother promptly engaged her security measures and sealed the facility, but, after a thorough search, She determined that two Specialists were missing. Presently, they are still unaccounted for, and there is a chance that they are under the effects of the Torment.'
The apprentices began muttering anxiously, slowly filling the indoctrination room with a loud commotion.
'Apprentices, I urge you to remain calm,' the mentor instructed raising his voice.
The indoctrination room was instantly muted. Darmians suffering manifestations was a grave and unprecedented event, but they knew better than to lose formality. Concern filled every face, except yours. You were listening calmly, pondering the implications for yourself.
The mentor placed his hands behind his back and resumed as calm as ever, 
'Please bear in mind that all measures are being implemented to find and bring to safe observation these two citizens of Darm. As it is plain to see, the Hub is under containment and is being thoroughly searched by Mother's esteemed Darmian Security Division. She ensures us that they are confined to the Hub and that they will be found. If you paid close attention to your Citizen's Directives doctrine you are more than prepared for circumstances such as this, and if you paid close attention to the Fundaments of Existence doctrine you are also aware that any manifestation, if not prolonged, is entirely reversible. Rest assured that there is no reason for alarm and Darm will continue to operate with order. Our Guiding Father guarantees that the Torment does not affect us as long as we follow his Directives.'
You did not resist the urge to ask, 'How can he guarantee that?'
Mentor Gordon had anticipated that question. He straightened himself up, becoming statue as solemn as those seen on a fountain. Then he added emphatically, 'If you follow the Directives, you will not be affected by the Torment.'
...deception upon deception...every darmian under his sway...how he fooled them so well...
It is true that Gadim accomplished his vision under the veil of deception. But he only did what he thought best for the salvation of your kind. And to some extent, his device protected the Pyre from the ailment that afflicted all life.
...at the cost of freedom...
'So, the Specialists breached the Directives?' you asked with doubt. You had breached the Directives on a few occasions and had yet to suffer any manifestation.
Mentor Gordon gave you a stern look, 'That is yet to be determined and is not the subject of this announcement, apprentice Balthazar. I say again, rest assured that you are entirely safe and at liberty to proceed with your activities. The plasma barrier encircling the Hub is merely a precautionary measure that might prove to be entirely unnecessary. The Specialists will be found and treated,' he said, and without allowing time for more questions added, 'and now we shall start our Demography indoctrination, we have lost enough time as it is,' he straightened his jacket and continued in a formal tone, 'Who amongst you wishes to begin?'
Standing tall above the dais, he peered at his worried apprentices to find one eager to answer, until his eyes locked with yours. You hastily turned your attention to your neuropad in a futile attempt to demonstrate that you were busily conveying thoughts to it.
He smiled, 'Apprentice Balthazar,' he called out, and in his tone was a subtle satisfaction. 'Do you care to begin?'
Hearing your name stung you painfully. You grimaced and then gave him a solemn stare, 'My apologies, mentor Gordon, but I have not prepared today's indoctrination.'
A thin smile was cast upon the mentor's tall face. 'What a shame. Apparently, your ability to intervene in this doctrine does not stretch beyond inappropriate questions. Fifty credits removed for failing to accomplish the assigned task, and for arriving late.'
The removal of credits was automatically performed and privately notified by Mother. For that reason, his purpose in announcing it aloud was easily made clear to you: to shame you in front of your colleagues for your impertinence. You lowered your head, grieved by the penalty. It was a substantial amount and would damage your standing.
He then ignored you altogether and asked the class once more who wished to begin.
'I can begin, mentor Gordon,' Heidi said timidly, alarmed by the mentor's harshness towards you.
The mentor nodded, flashing a smile.
'Amardan was the name given to a native tribe located in the boreal region of the Western Continent. There are no accurate measures of the prevailing numbers, but it is believed that they have all disappeared. They inhabited the lower canyons of the Cloven Plateaus, which consists of a complex system of plateaus. Orbital scans over the Cloven Plateaus suggest that their primary settlement was located on the margins of the river Fresca.'
'Very well,' the mentor interrupted. 'Anyone care to continue?'
After Samuel and Sophie completed Heidi's presentation, mentor Gordon progressed to addressing the peculiarity of the inhabitants of Amardan. He began by explaining that their physical appearance was markedly different from a pyrean, and had been caused by the Torment and the geographical isolation that subjected them to the relentless frozen winds of the Boreal Glaciers during thousands of years:
'When the temperatures became far too cold to withstand, they were forced to migrate further to the south of the Cloven Plateaus and after establishing a new settlement, their explorations led them to a route through the canyons, down to the northern lands of the Western Continent. They were immediately dreaded by the outlying settlements of pyreans as they soon proved to be wild and ruthless. After a succession of incidents that led to the destruction of many pyrean settlements, the pyreans were successful in driving them back to the Cloven Plateaus during the Starvation Years. They were given the name odyr , a name apparently derived from the native language, which means essentially ''big woolly pyreans''.'
...I have heard of these creatures...but I have never found one...
They were real as they are still, although how they were depicted in this indoctrination was not the most accurate of accounts, to say the least. Kind and compassionate by nature, these creatures had no ill intentions towards the pyreans, yet they soon became unwelcome in their land because of their imposing and menacing appearance. The settlers were quick to judge them as beasts and soon began to provoke and attack them, a reaction that served to the odyrs as a sign that they were to return to the Cloven Plateaus and forever remain there, far from any settlement.
'Odyrs were giant and extremely robust, with a thick bristly mantle which preserved their body temperature. These attributes granted them the ability to endure the extreme weather common to the latitudes they inhabited,' the mentor continued. 'Despite their primitive tendencies, they were cunning and intelligent, and they had often hunted pyreans as a food source before they were cast back into the canyons.'
Interjections of wonder were heard amongst the apprentices. Many covered their mouths; others were struck with surprise and did not react.
'How could they eat pyreans?!' Jack felt the urge to ask without permission, and his tone was smeared with nausea.
Mentor Gordon gave him a sharp glance, and continued, 'Odyrs might have very well been our ancestors, as difficult as it may be to acknowledge. It is believed that they were once antigans but were exposed to the Torment for far too long during the Age of Obscurity. It slowly deformed their appearance and twisted their minds as they turned to savagery. They began to feed on whatever they could find, and when food became scarce, they began to feed on each other,' he said and sighed affectedly. 'It is regrettable, but such was the outcome for most of those who existed in the time before our Guiding Father.'
As the apprentices fell into quiet contemplation, the mentor conveyed to the holoprojector a depiction of their appearance. Most reacted with silent discomfort, shifting in their seats or looking away, and for a moment not even the sound of breathing was heard inside the room. You even thought that Marlene would throw up again as you glanced at her and saw her already pale cheeks become more and more anemic. But she controlled her displeasure, as did the rest of the class. You were one step away from becoming citizens, and apprenticeship had a way of disconnecting a darmian's mind from the world outside. A cold detachment for all things beyond the Great Wall and the Sea of Tranquility had been bred into your hearts and minds, and some were even beginning to see things with the insensible analytical perspective of a Mentalist. Yet, as you looked at their depiction, you could not help but feel awe. They were shaped in the same fashion as pyreans, but their constitution was most different: their long arms ended in huge paws clad with long claws and they were almost twice as big as an average darmian, and their body was entirely covered with a thick mane of gray and white fur. Their face was covered in fur as well, with two menacingly sharp lower teeth sprouting from their dark lips, dark as their round smooth nose, eyelids and ears. Yet for all its ferocious appearance there was something deep in its hazel eyes, a profound kindness, a soft exuding compassion that revealed their bonds of kinship with the Pyre. Tears of wonder lit your eyes as you felt that you were looking at a long-lost ancestor, now found.
'That is one ugly creature!' Jack cried, as was his habit when things impressed him beyond restrain.
This time it was the mentor who allowed himself to giggle in response. 'They are, are they not?' he said in a joyous mood, entirely out of conduct for a mentor. 'Sometimes I wonder in my worst of thoughts, how foul they must smell or sound. It is very relieving to know that we will never have to see one in person.'
You were deeply disturbed by his derision. You dismissed Jack's answer altogether for you knew he did not mean those words, not truly. But the disdain in the mentor's eyes, the snide sound of his voice, forced you to speak, 'Mentor Gordon, I do not think your behavior is acceptable for a citizen of Darm,' you said, and your harsh remark pierced the air with the dominance of a reprimand.
A thick terrible silence smothered the indoctrination room. No image more frightening could have caused more dread in the eyes of mentor Gordon than the words you spoke. His stare was of shock. But yours was filled with resolve as you waited for him to answer to the letter. In fact, you wanted him to. Some unknown feeling stirred inside you when mentor Gordon spoke ill of the odyrs, and it seeped into your thoughts, begging you to allow it to take over. 
...the things that are foulest are buried deep within us...they have neither sound...nor smell...nor shape...
Mentor Gordon's face turned into a blank pale expression. His lips trembled slightly and for a moment he seemed to shrink to the image of a frightened pyrean. 
Suddenly, he skimmed his hands down his jacket, hid them behind his back and stretched himself tall upon the dais. 
'So, it seems you are productive after all, apprentice Balthazar. One can only be grateful to have an apprentice such as you to ensure the validity of one's indoctrination,' he said with a clear sharp voice. 'You are correct, for once. My apologies, class.'
Then he looked at Jack and with solemn formality declared:
'Apprentice Thompson, it is the second occasion during this indoctrination alone that you have disregarded the obligation to request permission to speak. As your colleague so vehemently reminded me, I am forced to notify you, for the first and last time, that if you are to disregard any obligation but once more, you will be disciplined accordingly, as it is commanded by the Directives established by the Council of Mentalists.'
Jack was speechless. He looked at him submissively and nodded. 'I understand, mentor Gordon,' he said despondently.
After the reprimand, the lesson proceeded with an eerie quietness. From time to time the mentor would look out the windowed wall to stare at one or another detachment of sentinels that patrolled the curved walkway between the Academy and the Central Circle, utterly unaware of the prolonged amount of time he spent in doing so, and the indoctrination soon ended, sooner than anyone would expect, but not sooner enough than everyone would like. As your colleagues stood and walked to the exit, you waited for Jack while he silently rolled up his neuropad, his head tilting low, his joyous mood turned into aloofness.
'My apologies, Jack,' you said as he walked towards the exit.
He stopped and looked at you dejectedly.
'Apology not accepted,' he said chipping your shoulder as he exited.
Mentor Gordon calmly followed behind and when he walked past you, he threw you a thin smile.
...cunning beast...

As you sat quietly next to Haji, while you finished your lunch in the great table of the crowded mess hall, Cathy, who had already finished hers, approached you intently, 'Do not worry, Alan. Jack will forget all about it after tonight's Gathering.'
'It was not your fault, Alan,' added Sophie, standing next to her. 'You did well in alerting mentor Gordon of his behavior. I for one found his disregard towards formality very upsetting.'
'Thank you,' you said to them, and a chain of thoughts led you to a curious conclusion. 'On a related topic Jack was the fourth person I had to apologize to today, - you gave Haji a sidelong glance and spoke close to his ear - I'm blazing, as gastians say.'
Haji smiled.
'How do you know what gastians say?' Sophie asked, leering at you with suspicion.
You looked at her with surprise and quickly corrected yourself, 'Would say! I mean as gastians would say, that is if I ever met one in person.'
'And how do you know what they would say?' she insisted.
There was no way of quelling her suspicion without lying, but you could not lie without your Unit notifying Mother of such act, which would result in being summoned by Overseers for interrogation. However, revealing the truth to her and Cathy was as dangerous a compromise as was lying. As you gave them a baffled stare, a subtle solution quickly came to your mind, 'I'm guessing?' you asked rhetorically.
Sophie squinted at you. 'Well, I guess you're not as smart as you think you are if you think you can trick me into thinking that that is what you thought.'
You blinked at her innocently, 'What?!'
'I am watching you, Alan,' she said. 'And if you lead Haji into breaching the Directives with more of your mischief you will have to answer to me. That is what!'
She then turned her back and headed out of the mess hall with Cathy at her side.
'Why am I making everyone upset today?' you asked Haji with a surprised look.
'If I were to speculate, I would say it is due to your disinclination towards obeying the Directives, your continuous acts of defiance towards most mentors, and your propensity for finding trouble where trouble is most unlikely to be, troublemaker.'
'Not you too!' you complained under a sigh.
Haji gave you a sly smile. 'I assumed my thorough analysis would cheer you up,' he said and got up with his empty tray on his hands.
'It most certainly did not!' you said and followed him with your tray on your hands.

Every last day of the week before Rest Day the indoctrinations at the Academy ended after lunch, for the Council considered it was best to grant the apprentices some spare time to allow them to review what had been taught during the week. On that special day, the one thousand finalists were granted the afternoon to begin the Gathering, and as soon as Cathy left the Academy, they followed her towards her suite. You, however, had to complete the tasks Miriam had appointed earlier, before even thinking of entertainment.
'Do not take too long, or you will miss all of the individual presentations,' Sophie said, as you and Haji departed in different directions from the mass of apprentices.
'We will not,' Haji assured.
Aware of how daunting the task appointed to you was, Haji had offered to help you, in order to spare you from arriving late at the Gathering. As you slowly rode your hoverboard towards your residence with him at your side, you removed the strange bracelet from your utility belt and showed it to him. After briefly speculating as to whom the bracelet belonged to, you arrived at your residence and stashed it in a small box you kept in your desk drawer, which you used to hide personal items. It was a fortunate gesture. Had you not hidden it there and you would have never found its owner.
