Fourth memory - At the East Retreat

Even though social interaction is irrelevant to the accomplishment of the metropolis' purpose, the Pyre's social heritage demands that darmians be granted the possibility to engage in such activities. As a result, four public establishments shall be built at convenient locations and equipped with all the necessary commodities. These Retreats, as they will be named, shall be available after Labor Time, and they shall grant the darmian a place to fraternize without supervision, the sole requirement being that they follow the Directives for social interaction. Although optional, their implementation is strongly advised, for all preliminary experiments reveal an increase in productivity of twenty percent on the experimental group, as opposed to the control group, which when deprived of social interaction revealed a decline of thirteen percent in productivity and an increase in suicide rates.

An excerpt from Annex #15: Extraordinary contingencies; 
Division of Darmian Affairs under the authority of Mentalist Silas;


You and Haji arrived at the East Retreat a while into Dinner Time. It was an out-of-the-way establishment, encompassing the entirety of the base of the gigantic East Magnetization Tower. Snow had started to fall, and as you walked along the retreat's round window-wall, you saw through the shaded permaglass several pairs of citizens and apprentices sitting and chatting inside many booths. Sophie was there, inside one of the booths. Cathy and Jack were there too, sitting across the table from her. Ever since the start of apprenticeship did your feelings for them grow. Now, gazing at them from outside the window, it came to you how fond you had become of your friends. The more you thought about what they meant to you, the more the desire to rest faded.
The cuddled entrance was facing the sea. There was a luminous sign above it with the holographic words ''East Retreat'' tinting the snow with shades of green.
Entering the round antechamber, you brushed off the thin layer of snow from your green uniform. Once the temperature matched the warm twenty degrees inside the retreat, the round door blocking your path slid into the wall. 
You entered the acclimatized hall, approached the broad counter at the center and greeted Colt, its administrator. He did not pay you much attention, seeming rather immersed in his customary task: watching the weekly bulletin displayed on one of the holoscreens attached to the large central pillar while mindlessly cleaning a spotless cup with a stainless cloth.
'Salutations.' you said. 
Colt nodded. His eyes were fixed on the holoscreen.
You leaned over the counter and Haji leaned at your side and all three watched the weekly bulletin. It was being presented by a female darmian with a tidy appearance and straight brown hair pulled behind her ears. Her voice was sharp and pleasant: 
''On Vanguard lunoid station, progress with the research conducted on the immunization of single cell organisms has reached an unprecedented breakthrough. After extensive manipulation of genetically modified cells, Project Specialists succeeded in reversing the mutations caused by the retrovirus PIn-T2. Result analysis suggests that this process can be replicated, and Specialists are confident that the research is close to eradicating the retrovirus from the Pyre genome. Our Guiding Father grants us his words on the subject:''
The elder countenance of Gadim emerged on the holoscreen. His short white hair was combed back, and his hazel eyes smiled kindly. He spoke with a mellow albeit firm voice, seeming that all his years of life had done nothing to spoil his vigor, granting him unparalleled resolve instead.
''This accomplishment serves to demonstrate our commitment to achieve Darm's purpose. It acknowledges Darm as the most advanced society ever created and acknowledges the efficiency of the Darmian Directives as well. Citizens and apprentices of Darm, we are nearing the end of the suffering that has devastated the Pyre since the dawn of the Age of Obscurity. As your Guiding Father, I commend you for your vital efforts in upholding our Prime Directive: Order ensures Progress.''
His face disappeared and the speaker moved on to less important reports.
Haji looked at you, 'It appears that your caretaker has made significant progress with the research,' he said.
The statement ignited Colt's curiosity. He halted his compulsive cleaning and looked at you, his dark eyes staring at you in expectation.
'It appears indeed,' you answered, tapping the counter, letting slip an embarrassed smile, dividing your attention between the two pairs of eyes. When their silent gaze became an off-putting stare you added, 'I don't know anything! She doesn't tell me anything!'
Your answer drowned Colt's curiosity. With one swift turn of the head, he returned to his endless task of rotating the cup with one hand and scrubbing it with the other.
You did not bother to bid your leave. You and Haji stepped away from the counter and headed down the corridor along the circular rows of booths. Most of them were occupied by weary citizens, others by apprentices engaged in conversations behind transparent soundproof domes. At the southernmost end of the establishment, you found Sophie, Cathy, and Jack - they seemed to be in a cheerful mood. Once Sophie saw Haji, she found room for him to sit.
The round booth was composed of one cushioned bench coated with a red hued fabric and a circular table crammed in the middle. You sat nearest to the retreat's window while Haji and Sophie sat next to you. Cathy and Jacky remained seated at the opposite side.
Jack smiled at you and spoke in a self-satisfied tone, 'Great intervention today, Alan. Tell us what happened after we left. Did mentor Levine invite you to a private indoctrination in her residence?' he asked, a smug smile on his face.
You looked at him and smiled. You had not just won a drifter race to let your friend's taunt discomfort you, 'You know how it is. Some are born to impress; others are born to be impressed.'
Jack combed his dense blond hair with one hand, his lips casting a smile as big as his face, 'You are right on that one,' he said. 'But you are not doing that bad. And if you need some hints, you know you can count on me.'
Cathy gave him an incredulous stare, 'He was talking about you Jacky. What he meant to say is that he is the one born to impress, and you are the one impressed.'
You chuckled, while Sophie and Haji remained oblivious to the conversation - they were sharing intimate smiles and speaking quietly with one another.
'So, you want to compete then?' Jack answered, his brows furrowing defiantly above his light-blue eyes. 'I hope you realize that you are no match for my impressiveness.'
He leaned back in the seat and sprawled his arms, wrapping one around Cathy's slender shoulders - she turned her head and flared her nostrils, seeming that she had smelled something unpleasant.
'You'd lose,' you objected, widening a proud smile.
Cathy pushed Jack's arm aside and chimed in, 'Please behave. There are other citizens here.'
Jack looked at Cathy with a false look of guilt, 'We were just kidding. Alan knows it. Right?' he asked, glancing at you.
'All I know is that I'm going to order something. I'm starving,' you said, answering to the rumbling in your stomach.
'I will order as well,' Haji intervened, interrupting his conversation with Sophie.
Lying flat on the center of the table was a holoprojector displaying an interactive menu of the establishment. You identified yourself by waving your forearm over it. Using Thought Interaction, you ordered your desired food: two nutrient bars and a vitamin shake. After taking your order, the center of the table opened, and your order was lifted on top of a tray from the opening. You picked up the tray and the holoscreen slid to its place with the notice ''Have a pleasant meal.'' floating inside it.
After Haji ordered and received his meal, the thin dome-shape curtain lowered over the booth, enclosing you and your friends inside it. Then the calm and tranquilizing voice of Mother spoke, ''Please select a theme.''
'Tropical beach!' shouted Sophie above Cathy and Jack; you could not care less as you chewed on one of the nutrient bars.
''Theme selected: Tropical beach. Have a pleasant Dinner Time,'' said Mother.
'Aww...again, Sophie?!' complained Cathy, softly banging her head on the table and then pushing her curly red bangs aside as she looked at Sophie, 'Next time it is my turn!'
Sophie's auburn eyes brightened, and she nodded joyfully.
As if it had become a live painting, the dome-shaped curtain turned into a sand filled beach encircled by an endless ocean with a clear blue sky above. The sparkling waves calmly embraced the shores in relaxing comings and goings, wetting the glittering sand.
Cathy sighed, as the relaxing sound of waves washed over the booth accompanied by a calm breeze. Then, she began, 'Now that we are all here, it is time to get started. As you all know, five weeks from now we will no longer be apprentices. For that reason, I made a request to the Council of Mentalists that this year the Gathering take place in my suite, and earlier this morning my caretakers and I received the authorization from Mentalist Silas.'
Scraping the bottom of your empty cup with a straw, you gazed at Cathy with curiosity. Mentalist Silas was the Head of Darmian Affairs and would not have allowed a Gathering to take place in a private habitation under normal circumstances.
'That is great!' cheered Jack.
'Will any Council representatives be attending?' Haji asked.
'Yes,' answered Cathy. 'One of the conditions imposed by Mentalist Silas is that we are to be supervised by Overseers.'
The bubbling echo coming from your cup went silent.
'That is not so great,' said Jack, hanging his head.
'Well, it was either that or having the Gathering at the Academy as is customary,' Cathy added.
As you listened, you could not help but feel frustrated that the gastians had the liberty to entertain themselves without any supervision, while darmians could not even have a formal event in a private suite without the Council of Mentalists prying into it. You put down your vitamin shake and before you gave it any thought you complained, 'This isn't right. The Council treats us like we're still infants. We can't even celebrate our turn to citizenship without having to be supervised?'
The answer came from Sophie, 'Alan, Mentalist Silas is opening an unprecedented exception. In return, all he asks is that our Gathering be supervised. What more do you ask?'
Cathy added kindly, 'It is only understandable, Alan. Mentalist Silas will appoint Overseers simply to ensure our safety. Our Guiding Father is a great visionary who created this metropolis to help the Pyre and the Mentalists are doing a remarkable effort in maintaining it in order.'
Sophie scolded, 'And if you had been more attentive to Demography and History doctrines you would know that every pyrean outside Darm is struggling for their mere survival against the Torment and against the harsh environmental conditions. Our Guiding Father has saved us from all this.'
...ignorant trusting fools...
You knew for a fact that, for the very least, Remgast was a place where neither the Pyre's genetic flaw nor the freezing temperatures stopped them from having a joyous existence. You looked at Haji's concerned gaze, knowing he was worried that you would lose your temper and tell them what you had been doing that afternoon. But he needed not worry - you would not be so reckless - but you would not sit by either, when your friends were being deceived, 'Everything they tell us in those doctrines serves to make us believe that Darm is the only place on Artica that is unaffected by the Torment,' you said. 'How can you accept their word without searching for proof?'
Sitting between you and Sophie, Haji quietly listened to your argument, realizing that he would soon have to pick sides between the two darmians he cared for the most.
'We are given have all the proof we need,' Sophie intervened, staring at you harshly. 'And I think the only reason you are so suspicious about the Council of Mentalists is because you blame them for not having two caretakers. And you spend so much time alone in your residence that you feel the need to go out and breach the Directives just so you feel better. But the worst part is that you take Haji with you,' she added in a bitter tone.
You turned your eyes to the soothing sea and fell into a brooding silence. Sophie had spoken her heart much out of concern for the well-being of Haji, you knew, but you could not help but feel that she was right. You were filled by an overwhelming sadness, and even though you were surrounded by your friends, you felt alone.
Realizing she had said more than she needed to prove her point, Sophie broke the silence, 'Alan, my apologies. I did not mean to say that.' she said, and her voice sounded as remorseful as the look in her eyes.
You allowed a sad smile to brighten your face, 'It's okay Sophie. I know you worry for Haji's sake,' you said, and a feeling of joy washed away your sadness when you remembered a comforting fact, 'besides, I don't live alone. I have Evander and Hampy to keep me company.'
Jack looked sideways at Cathy, 'An overzealous host and an outdated droid are hardly any company,' he murmured audibly and snickered.
Cathy stomped his foot under the table, 'It is a lot better than having you as a friend!'
You were starting to feel uncomfortable and wanted to move the spotlight that had fallen upon you, 'But you're right Sophie, when you say I shouldn't involve Haji.'
Haji widened his eyes at you, anticipating what you were going to say. He knew you too well.
'However,' you added, grinning at him wickedly. 'I do think he is entitled to an opinion.'
Haji looked down and shrank in his seat, hoping the conversation would fade into thoughtless remarks.
'You are right Alan,' said Sophie, a shrewd look in her eyes. 'What is your opinion, Haji?' 
Haji opened his mouth as if to speak but stopped. He did not want to pick sides, for he knew that if he did, his action would reinforce one relationship in detriment of the other. So, he glanced around, saw the restless look in Cathy's face, and hastily crafted a solution that would allow him to dodge the question - assuming Cathy would intervene as he expected her to.
'Well...in my opinion... - you and Sophie looked at him expectantly - I think being supervised by Overseers will do just fine.'
'Precisely!' Cathy stepped in, throwing a finger in the air. 'Thank you, Haji!'
He breathed a sigh of relief, as Sophie frowned at him and you looked away, into the virtual sea that surrounded the booth.
'I am glad I finally had an opportunity to step in,' Cathy added. 'This discussion was making me feel really uncomfortable. You two should know best not to have this kind of conversation. Dissent is a violation of the Prime Directive.'
'My apologies, Cathy. You are absolutely correct,' Sophie answered.
'We have completely diverted from our topic and needlessly allowed ourselves to upset one another. Alan?' Cathy called you.
You were distracted, listening to the sound of the waves crashing into the beach and thinking about what Sophie had said. When you heard her, you gave her a weary absent look, 'My apologies, Cathy. Go on.'
'Now, let's continue planning the Gathering,' she added.
'Let's do it!' said Jack, slapping his hands on the table and bouncing on the seat, catching everyone by surprise. 'We have a Gathering to prepare. And it is going to be fantastic!'
Cathy had previously arranged a list of tasks she intended to divide amongst her friends in accordance with the knowledge each possessed. She took her neuropad from her utility belt and unrolled it on the table.
'Alan and Haji, I need you to create the printing device's procedures for the props that will be decorating the suite and the costumes we will be wearing,' she said.
You nodded absentmindedly and turned your attention to the blue sea. Haji, however, in his eagerness for solving every complex situation he was confronted with, quickly began drawing a mental sketch of the instructions required to insert into the device that would print out the props and costumes in full color and shape.
'Jacky, have you spoken to your caretaker about the appetizers?' Cathy asked next.
Jack stretched his arm around her and released his huge glinting smile, 'Obviously. The appetizers are being created in the Second Quadrant Manufacturing Facility, where they will be stored and await the day they shall merrily journey into your delightful mouth.'
She pulled his arm away, 'Charming.' Then she turned her attention to Sophie, 'In that case all that remains is our part: choosing the theme.'
'I think Tropical is the best choice,' Sophie risked the suggestion, pouting her lips.
'Oh no! No more Tropical!' said Cathy.
'But it's so pleasant, so warm and so full of light! It's how the Island of Retirement must look like,' she said and turned her eyes to the tranquil beach behind Cathy and Jack.
'You will have plenty of time to stay on the island after you fulfill your goals as a citizen. Retirement is still one too many decades away,' said Cathy. 'I was thinking of a more intriguing theme: the animals from the Age of the Antiga Pyre. I've been to the Historic Records this afternoon and I browsed through some of the species. They were fascinating,' she added, her amber eyes staring blankly at the blue sky, 'quite fascinating.'
You and your friends shared a dull stare. 
As Cathy and Sophie chattered between themselves about which theme was the best, you had a calm conversation with Haji and Jack. Twice Jack interrupted their conversation to offer an uninformed opinion, mostly suggestions of sleazy costumes for the female apprentices.
'Why do you spend time choosing a theme?' he said slyly after they dismissed his suggestions countless times. 'Simple and light garments would do fine and are far less cumbersome. Why put so much thought into it?'
They utterly ignored him.

Sophie's initial disappointment regarding Cathy's choice had turned into eager anticipation, as Cathy explained to her some of her ideas for the costumes. After a tiresome hour, they had finally decided on the theme. Then, they moved on to the selection of the props for the suite, and as their conversation prolonged, you became increasingly drowsy. You started to insist on leaving, lightly elbowing Haji, who in turn elbowed you back. Jack was snoring already, his head lying on the back of the seat and a thin line of saliva dripping down the red coating from his partly opened mouth. Cathy and Sophie were still tirelessly discussing the theme, when Colt announced, with the precision of a clock, that the time had come to close the establishment. You thanked the moment. 
When you left the Retreat alongside your friends, you guided your weary feet upon the snow-laden Coastal Walkway, whose path faded into the night. Beyond, was the vast darkness of the sea, whose frozen waters already slept quietly.
Cathy and Jack bid their leave and climbed onto a platform, catching the Panoramic Way to the tall skyscrapers of the Specialist Class Sector. You and your remaining friends followed down the East Boulevard until entering one of the main roads of the Administrator Class Sector. After bowing and wishing them a pleasant evening, you turned to your street and pursued your path towards a good night's rest. Haji and Sophie lived on the same block of residences, and so they trudged down their street together, chatting quietly.
Each block was composed of an agglomerate of adjunct residences. They were identical in every aspect, something that usually confused you when returning to your residence at night. Were it not for your own personalized front entrance, and you would have skipped it, as you walked down the street. Even with the dim light coming from the streetlamps, you managed to perceive an untended patio that had disappeared under a meter of snow along with its chairs and table. You pushed the knee-height gate aside and stepped inside, dragging your legs through the snow. Beneath your narrow porch you glanced at the tidy terrace from the adjacent residence, the Sylvere's residence, and grimaced.
You looked at the silvery lunoids above, 'I hope Miriam can't see this from above,' you whispered, sighed, and entered.

The day had ended, and so you lied in bed and slept. And in due time, for Sleep Time had fallen upon Darm and every darmian was required to rest. So, rest you did, unaware that you had woven one more thread into the fabric of destiny that would lead you to where you stand now. I cannot help but wonder. If you had known the consequences, would you have still fallen asleep during that History indoctrination? Or answered to mentor Levine the way you did?
...I do not regret my actions...
Indeed you do not, for now...
Fifth memory - Anatomy of a virus

[...] and the economy shall be based on the awarding and removal of Credits, the sole currency of the metropolis. The sentient Artificial Intelligence shall continuously monitor the performance of every darmian, from their early stage as an infant up to their final stage as a citizen, and regardless of the stage, the better a darmian will be at performing his tasks, the greater the Credits she shall award them with. As a result of this economic system, the sentient AI shall be able to maintain a stable balance between the requirements and aptitudes of its inhabitants, ensure equal opportunities to everyone, and instill in them from an early age a reward-based mentality that shall greatly enhance productivity.

An excerpt from Annex #03: Currency and Reward Directives; 
Division of Darmian Affairs under the authority of Mentalist Silas;


The next week flew by as the expectations regarding citizenship grew. The turn to citizenship was a decisive event for all darmians, for it was the moment they were required to choose the occupation they would perform for the rest of their existence. Therefore, along with your growing expectation, grew an even greater dread, for you had not yet decided on an occupation that would award your existence with a sense of accomplishment. You hoped however, that when the time came, you would make the right choice, and the Gathering was just the right occasion to find some inspiration, as it represented your last opportunity for entertainment, and maybe one of the last moments you had to enjoy your time with many of your colleagues. As the week stretched on, one day was left before the day of the Gathering.
That morning, the metropolis awoke to the usual sound of citizens flowing in the streets and Boulevards, on their way to their occupations, like orderly rivers coursing through ridges of tall permaglass. Most of them were on foot and all were distinguishable by the color of their uniforms: green for apprentices, yellow for Manufacturing and Spaceport administrators, violet for Hub administrators and mentors, and white for the elite citizens, the Project Specialists. These bore stern faces; their tall, slender bodies clad in white filing over the white marbled pavement as an embodiment of the metropolis herself.
As you strolled down the colorful East Boulevard with a nutrient bar in one hand, you felt the presence of your Unit as she warned you of a communications request from Haji. You conveyed the thought to accept it, and you felt your mind expand beyond your thoughts.
'If you do not slow down, we will not be able to catch up with you,' Haji's faceless voice echoed in your mind.
'Where are you?' you thought as if you were speaking to him.
'Look behind you,' his voice answered.
You looked back and Haji and Sophie saw ten meters away, dressed in their green uniforms, walking through the myriad of colors. You stopped and waited for them, taking the last bite on the nutrient bar, which was becoming as cold and tasteless as snow.
'Salutations, Haji,' you greeted each one with a bow. 'Salutations, Sophie.'
Since the day Haji revealed his affection for her in the Academy hallway - however indirect as it might have been - he and Sophie had become close companions. At times they would exchange smiles and laughter, and even an occasional hug whenever they were out of sight of sentinels and of the draconian scrutiny of Council representatives, for any gesture of intimacy was deemed as unnecessary body contact as was considered a breach of the Directives for proper conduct.
'Salutations, Alan,' Sophie cordially replied. 'Ready for a new day of indoctrination?'
You nodded, demonstrating an odd enthusiasm for the perspective, 'As ready as I can be.'
As you strode on, walking behind a straight line of mentors and apprentices entering the Academy, you whispered to Haji with a sidelong glance, 'The Gathering is tomorrow.'
'I know,' he answered smiling.
Walking past the two dark-blue sentinels guarding its western entrance, you entered the vast white plaza. Before you, was a majestic, curved building with its inner facade facing the Netcore. Like all buildings in Darm, its surface was covered in permaglass, save for the tall frame that sustained it, which was made of glinting impermium .
Climbing its wide stairway and crossing the wide-open doors, you followed the two orderly rows of apprentices entering the building. Although you were many, you did not hear a sound when you entered the hallway, save for the sound of footsteps on its pristine marble floor.
The indoctrination rooms were aligned throughout the inner arch of the hallway with their corresponding number marked above their entrance. When you entered the ''#465'' indoctrination room, you saw the mentor of Fundaments of Existence standing on the dais in front of her apprentices while waiting patiently for the signal to begin indoctrination; sitting at their desks some apprentices exchanged quiet conversations. When a clear sharp note echoed through the corridors and into the indoctrination room, the sliding door behind sealed shut and the apprentices' murmurs faded into an absolute silence. The mentor smiled and approached the first row of desks, bowing afterwards.
'Salutations, apprentices. Today we shall begin our final theme before your rightful admittance to citizenship. Once we have completed it, you shall have an extensive understanding of the pathogen that forever changed the Pyre's genetic code.'
To most of the apprentices, the mentor had an unremarkable voice, but to your ears, her voice was kind and enthralling, much unlike the dull scratchy voice of mentor Levine.
'Who amongst you can share some knowledge about the retrovirus that put an end to the Antiga Pyre?' she asked.
A few hands rose above the silent audience, belonging to apprentices that placidly waited to be called on to answer. Amongst them was Sophie's, and her eyes glinted as she restrained her excitement.
'Very well, we have four apprentices who have prepared this indoctrination. Those of you who have raised your hand, shall take turns to provide the answer in a sequential fashion. Apprentice Lauren, do you care to begin?' she asked turning her attention to Heidi.
Heidi lowered her hand and sat straight in her second-row desk, placing one hand on top of the other, and answered with her delicate voice:
'The entity known as PIn-T2, was a non-lethal retrovirus whose transmission to the host was achieved through any liquid medium. It could be absorbed through the respiratory system by means of airborne aerosols released from a contaminated host, digestive system by means of ingestion of contaminated water or food containing water, or its most effective mean, the transmission of fluids though bodily contact which led to direct absorption by the circulatory system.'
'Very well,' interrupted the mentor. 'Apprentice Adams, you may continue,' she said pointing to Andrew, an apprentice with whom you were not very well acquainted, even though he always carried a friendly expression.
Andrew spoke with proud confidence, which by itself demonstrated his desire in completing his apprenticeship as one of the top ranked apprentices, 'The retrovirus belonged to the Oxygen-Nitrogen based macromolecules, containing a reactive strand of nucleotides. Its organic structure was highly unstable due to the presence of ionized phosphate groups on its skeleton, which in conjunction with its sedimentation velocity allowed it to adhere with great ease to the eukaryotic cells of the Pyre. Once it reached the circulatory system, the retrovirus penetrated the cells by attaching itself to the nucleotides of the genetic code.'
'Well done, apprentice Adams,' the mentor congratulated.
Andrew gave her a proud look while the mentor directed her attention to Sophie, 'Apprentice Andersen, you may continue.'
'The adherence process of the viral RNA strand to the DNA molecules of the host's cells took place in the S-phase, where simply put, a cell's DNA molecules split into two and form two other DNA molecules. The adherence of the viral strand was made possible due to the enzyme integrase that allowed the retrovirus to become part of a cell's DNA through a reverse transcriptase process. As a result, when the S-phase was completed, the cell entered the mitosis phase and formed two new cells carrying the viral DNA strand. These infected cells would then carry on replicating more infected cells through the regular cell cycle. For this reason, the enzyme integrase was one of the fundamental components of the retrovirus, as it served as the tool that allowed it to become part of the cell's genetic code and establish a lifelong infection in the host.'
Haji nodded at her, and his lips moved, saying ''Superb''. 
She gave him a proud smile.
'Well presented, apprentice Andersen,' and the mentor bowed to her. 'Apprentice Emerson you may conclude.'
Francis sank down on his chair and answered timidly, 'I have not attained much more knowledge of the subject, mentor Elias. What I learned by inquiring Mother is that after a new host had been infected, its cells reproduced the retrovirus macromolecule which in turn would release itself into the environment and find new hosts through liquid medium, as Heidi mentioned.'
'Thus, completing the cycle,' mentor Elias added. Her green eyes glinted with satisfaction and her slender face was filled with a gentle smile. 'Well done. I am proud of my apprentices.'
...she was kind...and beautiful...
She was. It was since your earliest days as an apprentice that you nurtured an uncommon admiration for her. To you, every aspect of her was pleasant and proportional. Her white teeth aligned perfectly behind her thin red lips; her amber eyes warmed your heart every time she looked upon you; her captivating smile carried your thoughts away to bold fantasies. Her firm breasts filled her tight violet uniform, her waist was as smooth as a wave function, her fertile hips and her lean thighs urged you to ---
...leave my fantasies out of this and get on with this meaningless subject...
Forgive me. I shall resume. However, this subject was not as meaningless as you might consider. Within it, was an understanding to the Torment which no one except Gadim was able to fully grasp. He saw the retrovirus in its entirety, and he saw how it corrupted life, turning your kind into something that I never intended you to be.
The mentor turned to the window-wall and interacted with it, using the neurolink that rested comfortably on her right ear. The view of the Academy's inner plaza was replaced by an opaque screen of information related to the Fundaments of Existence doctrine, whose seemingly endless topics filled the wall from top to bottom. Using Thought Interaction, she accessed the topic ''PIn-S2'' and then the sub-topic ''Epidemiology''.
On the screen were displayed several images demonstrating a sequence of the infection process of the retrovirus. In one of the images, the macromolecule seemed to be in interaction with an isolated eukaryotic cell; in another was plainly visible the strand of nucleotides that Heidi had described. The images seemed to be divided in four stages and the mentor began to explain the first stage, mentioning with approval the common points that her apprentices had presented. Arriving at the second stage, she sat behind her desk and continued:
'On the second stage of incubation, we can see that the affected cells of the organism now comprise over seventy percent of the cell population, with a prevalence of approximately thirty percent on the bone tissue. In this stage, the group of signs and symptoms were still inexistent or unspecific. Consequently, it was still not possible to ascertain without clinical trial whether an organism was infected or not.'
Her soft voice was so alluring that you followed her every move and every word, from her calm gestures pointing towards the three-dimensional images, to her occasional pauses to assess whether she could continue or whether she had to explain once more.
'On entering the third stage, the incubation had successfully reached the point of irreversibility, and any attempt to eradicate the retrovirus resulted in the destruction of its host. This irreversibility is one of the two reasons why this pathogen was so effective at spreading throughout the globalized societies of the antigans. The other reason was that the host was already infectious during the incubation process, meaning that the retrovirus was free to replicate itself and spread to new hosts without any signs of infection being displayed by the carrier.'
After mentor Elias highlighted the last stage of the incubation process, the screen reproduced an animation of the retrovirus neutralizing the cell's defenses and attaching itself to a DNA strand. Its effectiveness was both admirable and disturbing.
She pointed one finger to a segment of the altered DNA, 'Once fully lodged inside the still asymptomatic host, the viral RNA strand migrated from the cells' nucleus to the cells' mitochondria, lodging itself in the DNA of this structure. The incision of the vRNA in the cell mitochondria caused a chain mutation of mitochondrial DNA, creating a pattern with a specific codon sequence known to be the Torment trigger sequence. The mitochondria's more resistant RNA molecules were unable as well to prevent this mutation due to the hypersecretion of oxygen reactive composites by the retrovirus, which neutralized any attempt to repair the damaged DNA strands. When the fourth stage was complete, the mitochondrial DNA became viral, triggering the start of an irreversible chain reaction,' said the mentor, pointing to the schematics where the viral RNA performed an alteration of the mitochondrial DNA. 'The first of our Guiding Father's accomplishments, was to discover that the transition from the incubation phase to the Torment phase followed a chain recoding of the DNA that would only commence once the mitochondria population of the host was entirely contaminated, which means that the Torment phase would wait until the incubation phase had been completed,' she said and waited for the apprentices to finish their annotations. 'There are no accurate predictions of the time span of the incubation phase, but models run by Mother suggest that this process lasted for twenty to thirty years, and we now know that this viral RNA was also able to infect the host's gametes during meiosis, meaning that any offspring would be equally infected. This was one of our Guiding Father's most important discoveries, as it allowed us to entirely understand the cause of the extinction of the Antiga Pyre. It is believed that once an offspring from an infected antigan attempted to breed with a non-infected antigan, the result would be an infertile hybrid. This means that throughout the Age of Obscurity, as all the surviving populations became infected, the Antiga Pyre withered away and eventually became extinct.'
She granted the apprentices some time to convey into their neuropads what she had said. Then, she added, answering to some keen eyes, 'This is one of the reasons why all darmians are fertilized and bred in controlled laboratory conditions and then appointed to caretakers. However, it is still a futile effort to reverse our offspring's genetic code to that of our ancestors. It may even prove impossible, since the original code was lost when the antigans became extinct.'
You raised your hand, as much out of curiosity as to grab her attention. When she nodded to you, you asked, 'Why were the antigans unable to remove the genetic flaw from their gene pool. Were they unable to use genetic programming?'
'That is a good question, apprentice Balthazar,' she answered as you welcomed her tender gaze. 'They were aware of genetic programming, but not even that was enough to stop the virus. The reason is that the retrovirus did not perform a linear mutation of the Antiga Pyre's DNA. Instead, it unevenly spread throughout their genetic code in small and very discrete codon sequences, some of them redundant, others self-reconstructive, and others seemingly normal, yet all interlinked through a process that was only discovered by the Guiding Father, after their extinction.'
'That was one smart germ!' Jack allowed himself to shout.
The class erupted in a half-suppressed laughter.
Mentor Elias calmly gazed at him, 'It was indeed, apprentice Thompson, and that is why it was successful in leading an entire species to self-extinction. You should have some respect for it, and for our ancestors.'
One by one, the apprentices quieted down, gazing at the mentor in solemn contemplation.
'My apologies, mentor Elias. I did not mean to disrespect them,' Jack spoke embarrassedly to the silent room.
'Apology accepted,' she said, throwing him a courteous smile.
After a brief pause, the mentor moved on to the next topic: ''Pathophysiology.'' 
The lights in the room waned and she continued the indoctrination on the holoprojector, letting the morning light into the room through the shaded window-wall:
'We shall now address the syndrome that the Nova Pyre has come to refer to as the Torment. These set of signs and symptoms, commonly known as manifestations, are the reason why from antigan civilization there are only buried remnants, broken artifacts, and weather-beaten ruins.'
Hovering above the holoprojector, emerged a physical representation of a male antigan, slowly rotating along a vertical axis. Its body was stubby and hairy, its skin soft and pale, its face beardy and bestial.
...they were very different from pyreans...
Evolution from Antiga Pyre to Nova Pyre produced mild to severe changes to the Pyre's constitution. Some of the changes were discrete, such as the loss of all hair in both the male and female body, apart from the head, eyebrows and eyelashes. Other were more noticeable: they became taller and slenderer, and their face uncommonly fairer and more delicate, changes that occurred because attractiveness became the sole criterion of natural selection between pyreans during the Age of Obscurity.
'The Torment can be divided into two sets of symptoms,' said mentor Elias. 'The Localized Morphological Manifestations and the Widespread Morphological Manifestations, which, as the name suggests, are either localized or widespread alterations in our body appearance. These can be temporary, or in more severe cases permanent, and are a result of the change in the genetic code responsible for our appearance.'
Mentor Elias continued to explain the Torment, using the antigan model to demonstrate different manifestations. Your astonishment grew increasingly as the model assumed various grotesque forms. On one of the Localized Manifestations, the model suffered shocking alterations to the arms; these increased in size, changing shape and radically changing their texture and color to a rugged and reddish glow.
When she moved on to the Widespread Morphological Manifestations, your astonishment turned into disbelief. On one of the first manifestations, the model grew to almost three times its size and his skin turned into a ridged shell with a brownish hue; his already brutish face became heinously deformed, the lips thick and dark, the eyes deeply burrowed into the skull as if they had been sucked in by some incomprehensible force, and his hair had extended down to its body and thickened to become a layer of menacingly sharp thorns. On one of the last manifestations the model became utterly repulsive, its skin turning into a sickening green paste, and becoming so languid it seemed to melt off its body; its limbs were reduced to large tentacles, and on its edges grew blotches and pustules, some of them erupting with a yellow slimy fluid. No apprentice was unmoved by the manifestation. Many ended up averting their eyes, and Marlene, an apprentice with a peculiarly pale skin-tone, which had become white as marble at that point, ended up throwing up her breakfast on the floor. It was after that incident that mentor Elias decided to stop the demonstrations and interrupted the indoctrination, allowing the apprentices to recover and share their thoughts, while she accompanied Marlene to the washroom.
You took the time to talk to Haji, stealing his attention from his neuropad, 'What do you think of this?' you asked feeling both curious and suspicious.
Haji gave you an upset look, 'It troubles me to know that we have the Torment inside us. Without the Personal Identification Unit, we would be vulnerable to it. Our Guiding Father might not be as great as he claims to be, but we still must thank him for what he has accomplished. He helped the Pyre reclaim its place in Artica and allowed its societies to rebuild once more.
You looked at your neuropad as the image of the manifestation rotated inside it, 'Maybe you're right...' you yielded, your suspicion turned to doubt.
...what a grand deception...

A little while after, mentor Elias returned with Marlene at her side. The apprentice was grasping her stomach, but her skin was a little less pale, which led you to assume she was feeling a little better. After dragging her feet back to her desk, she sat, quite slowly. The mentor returned to her place alongside the holoprojector and waited until the apprentices returned to their silent awareness before proceeding:
'I would like to end this indoctrination with a quick note. As you are aware, any change that occurs on a given system, however erratic it may seem, obeys a specific set of facts, or laws. It is only because of laws that we are able to predict the motion of the stars and galaxies, the weather patterns that determine Artica's climate, the cycle of our existence, and yes, even the Torment,' she said and became quiet, seeming intended to incite curiosity. After sitting behind her desk and quietly conveying some thoughts to her neuropad, she continued, 'As such, I wish you to research the set of laws related to the Torment as they are presented in Gadim's Theorem regarding Phenotype Rearrangement which shall be the theme for the upcoming indoctrination. The criteria for Credits awarded shall be based on the knowledge of the topic, clarity of the presentation and conclusions drawn from the research. The respective Credits are five, ten and fifteen.' She rose from her seat and walked towards the edge of the dais, 'Does anyone need me to clarify any subject?'
A multitude of arms were raised. 
Given the short amount of time before the signal, mentor Elias allowed only one question. To be impartial in her choice, she used her neurolink to generate a random name and then present it on the walls so that everyone could see. Leonard was the apprentice Mother chose, highlighting his name in big letters on the walls.
Leonard was not the type of apprentice that would actively participate in any discussion. Throughout the years he had developed - nearly at a mastery level - the ability to pay attention to both the indoctrinations and Heidi, an apprentice he had become irresistibly infatuated with. During any given indoctrination he would devote his eyes to the mentor, and his ears to Heidi, who was sitting next to him. When he saw his name floating on the walls, he felt his secret had been discovered, and Heidi's eyes and ears had now turned to him. He could not help but feel that he was being punished somehow, since now he had no other choice but to become the center of her attention.
He asked with a tremulous, shrill voice, 'Mentor Elias, I understood how the retrovirus managed to spread throughout the Antiga Pyre and create us. And I also understood what manifestations are. But what I did not understand - he glanced at Heidi before continuing - or at least not too well, is why the Torment has so many different manifestations.'
Mentor Elias was delighted with the apropos question. It had been the first time Leonard had participated in her indoctrinations and yet he had managed to identify the mystery behind the Torment.
'That is an excellent question apprentice Leonard. No doubt some of you are unable to understand the reason as to the enormous diversity of manifestations - some apprentices nodded their heads. - Unfortunately, the reason can only be revealed to those who succeed in becoming Project Specialists.'
Leonard's satisfaction waned into an expression of disappointment; he knew that with his credits he would never be assigned to that occupation. Conversely, a look satisfaction grew in some faces - Heidi's included - for they knew they would surely achieve Specialist Class.
'However!' mentor Elias added, pouting her lips slyly, 'one could speculate - her eyes probed the ceiling - that there could be a correlation between these manifestations and the way we experience emotions.'
Bewilderment is the most appropriate word to describe the look on the apprentice's faces, yours included. No one could understand the correlation; some found it so surprising that they raised their hands to ask for a more comprehensive explanation.
'I would be delighted to engage in further speculation,' mentor Elias continued, 'regretfully, this more confusing than explanatory conjecture will have to suffice.'
The indoctrination ended a few seconds later, leaving the room full of disappointed apprentices. One by one, they rolled up their neuropads and packed them in their utility belts, leaving the room orderly while engaged in quiet arguments. Mentor Elias remained at her desk, conveying thoughts to her neurolink. Heidi approached the desk and attempted - yet unsuccessfully - to ask for an explanation. As vain as the attempt might have been, for Leonard it was the appropriate excuse to walk up to her side and start a conversation. And so, he did, shyly.
Sixth memory - Tales of the long departed

[...] leading me to conclude that instinct and emotion became the never-ending source for all the tragedy that befell the Antiga Pyre. Further experimental research performed on infants nurtured in simulated wildlife environments revealed behaviors that in some cases surpassed even the savagery of animals, whereas the control group, when deprived from any other contact with nature, had their instincts and emotions rendered latent. This outcome could be explained by the biological affinity that we have to these animals, namely the mammals. Even though not all fauna and flora were extinct during the Age of Obscurity, it is highly recommended that darmians be kept isolated from the surviving species and the only information available regarding this matter be related to the extinct species that once co-existed with us. Furthermore, they should be known to darmians only as animals and each should be named by their scientific nomenclature, a contingency that shall uphold a sense of singularity of the pyrean species and possibly instill in them a sense of alienation that will extinguish any affinities for animals that may arise. Regardless of the outcome, I recommend continuing the research in the field of genetic remapping and attempt to remove instinct and emotion and every other genetic fault from the Pyre gene pool altogether. Although most of the first experiments were unsuccessful, some failed specimen revealed significant improvements.

An excerpt from Annex #9: On biological seclusion; 
Division of Darmian Affairs under the authority of Mentalist Silas;


With Lunch Time upon Darm, the vast mess hall of the tenth floor of the Academy was immersed in the warm fragrance of food. The large, curved window-wall opposite the entrance allowed Mithras to shine its light upon the multitude of green uniforms. The apprentices sat, chatted and chewed, smiled at each other and scraped the remainders of food from their dishes. Their lunches were being handed to them by an extensive line of food generators on top of metallic counters, which were located on the edges of the curved hall. 
After ordering and collecting the food trays, your group sat together at the only table in the mess hall: an enormous U-shaped table that extended from one edge of the hall to the other. Resting on the table in front of you, on a round metal plate, was your meal as you ordered it: a blue carbohydrates jelly cube, a colorful emulsion of mineral, a triangular prism of fibers, and a sliced brown cylinder of complementary nutrients. On a cup next to your plate was your favorite drink, a sweet and sour vitamin shake. Altogether, they comprised a third of your daily dosage of nutrients, as was determined by your Unit's health monitoring module.
While everyone enjoyed their meal, Cathy grabbed the opportunity to learn about the preparations for the Gathering:
'How are the procedures for the printing device coming along?' she asked you and Haji, with a hint of concern.
'They are practically finished,' Haji answered, sitting at your side. 'All that is left to do is run a simulation to correct any errors, which I will be doing this evening. I believe you are going to find the animal costumes quite appealing, but you really must congratulate Alan for the designs. He wrote the instructions for the animal costumes by himself.'
Cathy smiled at you from across the table, her eyes glittering with satisfaction, 'Excellent!' Cathy applauded. 'The preparations are coming along as we expected.'
'It is excellent indeed!' said Sophie, sitting next to Cathy. 'I was beginning to worry that we were going to have to postpone the Gathering due to mentor Levine's bonus presentation. We might owe everything to your efforts Alan.'
Instead of doing research for the presentation, you found that working on the instructions for the animal costumes was the best way to spend your Rest Time. Now, you felt comforted in knowing that you had helped all finalists, and you saw it as an amends for all the trouble you had caused to many of them due to your several misguided conducts throughout apprenticeship.
'It was my pleasure,' you answered with a smile.
'Moving on,' continued Cathy, 'it was the unanimous decision of all finalists that each of us will select one animal and present it one by one. The selection will be done according to the Standings' - you hung your head in disappointment - 'but, the organizers take priority over everyone else.'
'I've already chosen mine,' you promptly announced.
'I have already chosen mine as well,' Haji added.
Sophie and Cathy stared with surprise at each other. 
'And which was your choice?' Cathy asked you, a look of curiosity on her face.
Your words came out in a blend of simplicity and reverence, revealing your admiration for the animal, 'Ailuropoda melanoleuca.'
Jack gave you a dumbfounded stare, 'What is that?'
'Ailuropoda melanoleuca is the designation given to a peculiar animal. Traces of its existence were found on the oriental borders of the East Continent,' explained Cathy.
'And what makes it so peculiar?' asked Jack.
Sophie answered, 'Well, besides having a furry and adorable look, it is believed that though it shared an affinity with predators, it fed exclusively on a unique vegetable and was very affable.'
'Did you pick him because it reflects your personality?' Cathy teased.
You flushed and took a spoonful of fibers to your mouth just so you did not have to answer.
Sophie's curiosity was not yet sated, so she took the opportunity to ask, 'What about you Haji, which one did you pick?'
Haji gave her a simple yet proud smile, 'Of all the animals that I studied, the one I found most alluring was the Linx pardinus. I was astonished by its spots and long ruffs of fur beneath the chin. They were magnificent animals.'
Sophie's lips drew a captivating soft smile, 'That is interesting. I have considered choosing one that bears a strong resemblance to the Lynx pardinus.'
'You have?' he asked, and now it was his turn to feel curious, 'Which one is it?'
She pouted in a playful manner and then answered with an infantile infatuation, 'Nuh uh...I cannot say. It will be a surprise.'
'That is not fair! I told you mine,' complained Haji. Oddly to him, when gazing at her bright brown eyes the disconnected word ''jubatus'' came to his thoughts. He ignored the word entirely as he did not see her lips move.
 'I did not force you,' Sophie flicked her auburn hair. 'Trust me, my favorite darmian. It will be a lot more interesting when you find out,' she answered and winked at him across the table.
Haji admired her attractive smile as he wondered about what she had chosen, and when a strange and out-of-place silence sunk in, he realized that the rest of their friends were staring at them with amused faces.
'When did you two get so cozy together?' asked an astonished Jack.
'It does not concern you,' Cathy answered with an amused smile. 'Now, moving on. Which attires shall the rest of us choose?'
'I want a fierce animal!' Jack jumped in as loud as he could. 'The fiercest of them all!'
'In that case, choose the Panthera leo,' suggested Cathy, remembering her awe when she saw its animation in the Historical Records. 'It is considered by our Specialists to be the fiercest and most terrifying animal that existed in the obscure age. He had a formidable mane that encompassed his entire head and chest.'
'That one! That's the one!' said Jack raising his finger to the air and unleashing his disproportionate smile.
You gave Haji a sidelong look, 'I don't know if the mane can compete with his tremendous, humongous smile.'
Everyone laughed except for Jack. He frowned at you while you looked up at the metallic ceiling, your hands behind your head.
'Mock me all you want,' retorted Jack in his self-assured wittiness, 'but when the Gathering starts, and you ask me to introduce you to some of my female acquaintances you'll see how humendous my smile can be.'
You leaned forward and gave him a humble smile, 'Come on Jacky, I'm just complimenting your smile. I was saying that nothing can compete with it.'
Jack was pleased with your excuse, and his face changed from disgruntled to smiley, 'Nothing can indeed. And since I am in such good mood, you can count on me to present you to some of the apprentices from class #47. Some of them have been asking me questions about you, ever since they learned of your daring response to mentor Levine.'
Cathy's amused smile waned, and she lowered her eyes to her tray. You managed to notice, and an unsettling sense of helplessness urged you to speak to her. But you did not know how.
'Well, the Gathering's purpose is to allow finalists to find the right companion. I am sure you will find one for you Alan,' she said glancing at you with disappointment.
A veil of silence fell on you corner of the vast table, surrounded by the echoes of clattering and racketing of cutlery and dishes and trays.
'I can hardly believe we have only four more weeks before completing the tenth and last year of apprenticeship,' groaned Jack with his mouth full. 'After that, it is time for a residence of my own and some quality time with my companion.'
Sophie gave him an absent nod.
'It is not long now until we become citizens,' said Cathy.
'Not long now,' you muttered, staring outside the window, your thoughts besieged by great unease.
...I dreaded that moment...
'What do you think mentor Elias meant by suggesting that the Torment is related to the way we experience emotions?' you asked, curious about her words and wanting to change topic. 'There was something in the way she spoke, a hidden intention.'
'It was just a hypothesis, Alan,' assured Sophie.
'A curious one indeed,' added Haji. 'That manifestations may be somehow related to emotions is a disturbing prospect.'
Jack picked up pieces of jelly from his plate, placed two pointy pieces between his teeth and lips and two other round pieces on his eyes, 'Look at me, I'm angry and I'm becoming a pestilent creature!' he said, raising claw-shaped hands at Cathy.
'That you are,' she retorted indifferently.
The pieces fell from his face and he added with displeasure, 'Come on! Are we seriously going to change topics only to feed Alan's hunger for whatever is that he likes to feed on? Theories about how the indoctrinations are meant to deceive us and how they hide from us the existence of civilizations outside Darm...'
You smiled at him. For once you agreed with him, 'You're right Jack, the Gathering is tomorrow, and we have better things to talk about.'
'And I can barely wait any longer!' Cathy added, rousing the mood. 'I want to see how I look as the animal I picked. The virtual illustration did not leave me too impressed. I might have to add some adornments,' she added with a sly look on her face.
As she curled her red hair around a finger she occasionally cast her amber eyes at you, neither smiling nor frowning. You smiled at her absentmindedly.
'I still cannot understand. Why all that interest for an attire?' Jack asked while he filled the fork.
'I do not expect you to understand,' Cathy answered, her eyes looking at the empty tray, her head resting on one hand.
Jack shrugged and filled his mouth with food.
'That's because there is nothing to understand,' he concluded while chewing. 'You girls make a fuss out of everything.'
'Jack, the Gathering is the official occasion for a finalist to choose a companion ,' Haji explained. 'It is an especially important moment for many of us, as our choice will determine whom we will be spending the rest of our existence with. Some finalists, want to look their best for the occasion.'
 'What about you Haji, is it an important moment for you?' Sophie asked him.
Haji looked at her and when her bright brown eyes met his hazel eyes he answered softly, 'I have already chosen my companion.'
Sophie's eyes shone bright as stars and she smiled with absolute delight. Even you, who were still worrying about becoming a citizen, turned your attention to them. It was such a weighty decision for your best friend that you felt an immense joy for him and for Sophie. 
Cathy was happy for her as well and she smiled at them, suppressing a natural hint of envy.
'Well, if no one wants you I can throw in a favor Cathy,' said a completely oblivious Jack with his mouthful.
If eyes could melt, Cathy's stare would have disintegrated Jack.
'Jacky!' Sophie intervened in a cheerful yelp, still overjoyed by Haji's indirect proposal.
Jack realized everyone was staring at him.
'What?!' he shrugged, 'I am just saying, if Cathy can't find anyone, I don't mind being her companion.'
Cathy leaned over the table and answered, smoothly, 'Jacky, I rather have the Torment manifestation that made Marlene throw up.'
The table filled with warm laughter.
'Ouch Cathy, that's harsh,' he answered and smiled at the first apprentice that walked past him, feigning indifference.
'That's well deserved!' you added while laughing.

Throughout the rest of Lunch Time, many apprentices enjoyed the fresh air outside, strolling on the grey granite slabs of the courtyard surrounding the Academy's massive building. The courtyard was decorated with elegant imposing sculptures made of polished gray stone, depicting some of the most memorable mentors to ever exist. Scattered about, were tall and sparkling water fountains mixed with anticoagulant and long benches, kept warm and dry by an internal heating device. 
You and Cathy sat on one of them and enjoyed a truly admirable view of the Netcore. Like a tall pillar of light, it rose from the Central Circle and pierced the clear blue sky, reflecting Mithras as it shone upon her permaglass and impermium countenance. Jack was standing next to you, but he was distracted from the conversation you were having with Cathy, as he was engaged in the repetitive task of greeting female apprentices with his large disproportionate smile as they walked past him. Sophie and Haji were keeping a private distance from the rest of the group. Sophie would smile at him and comb her hair with her fingers, while Haji had the same confused look he used to have when he was unable to understand something. Nevertheless, nearing the end of Lunch Time, they both shared a lasting hug before standing up.
You did not pay much attention to the Citizen's Directives doctrine that afternoon. You were otherwise intrigued about mentor Elias' last statement and your mind kept trying to find a relationship between emotions and the Torment. Therefore, you barely listened to the topics mentor Lauren indoctrinated with dogmatic determination, regarding the complex hierarchies that gave structure to the administrative levels of the Project Facility.
Seventh memory - Mother

''When I authorized Miriam to breed the descendant, I did so under the condition that Alan Balthazar were to reside alone and be deprived of any primary socialization for his isolation was indispensable for the Project. It was for that reason as well that to him alone I granted the freedom to reprogram his host and gave him full access to Mother, even if for him it would seem granted through the guise of deception. It was perhaps out of whim, perhaps out of carelessness towards the higher order of causality, that to him alone I granted also the chance to keep his Affection Support Droid beyond his infanthood.''

An excerpt rescued from the final diary of Gadim: Regarding Alan Balthazar's early life;


That night, you spent Dinner Time in Haji's residence. Once you arrived at the front entrance, the welcoming was short, and it was not long afterward that the four of you were sitting at the dining room table.
'Dinner is served,' announced Haji's female caretaker, setting a pan drenched with condensation on the table. She opened the pan, and a dense cloud of vapor filled the room, 'Nutrients salad with sweet sauce, your favorite, Haji.'
Haji's hungry eyes widened once the steam scattered from inside the pan, revealing a colorful assortment of jelly cubes dipped in sauce. Once you had all served your plates, you ate and drank in silence. Haji's caretakers were middle-aged darmians. They were both quiet and composed: the female a gentle-looking pyrea with dark-brown eyes and ash-brown hair; the male a surly pyrean of pale skin-tone with short dark-brown hair and soft hazel eyes. They belonged to the twenty fifth generation of darmians and were currently completing their final year as citizens. At the end of the year, they would be granted their Honorable Retirement and given passage to the Isle of Retirement, where they would spend the rest of their existence.
Once you were done eating, you had a somber and unsmiling conversation with them. You talked about the latest indoctrinations at the Academy, shared your disquiet about becoming a citizen and managed to ask some questions about their occupations. The male caretaker was one of the many spaceport administrators whose task was to perform maintenance on the shuttles that transported cargo and personnel to the Vanguard and Renaissance research stations established on the lunoids, while the female was one of the Darmian Support Center administrators, whose task was to ensure the delivery of the daily orders performed by every darmians. Despite your curiosity in learning more, neither one of them seemed interested to talk about the more specific details of their occupations, rather taking turns in glancing discretely at the sofa in the living room. When you ran out questions - much to their relief - they got up from the table only to sit on the sofa while you and Haji took the dishes, forks, cups and pans to the appliances room .
After clearing the table, you followed Haji towards the sofa. You considered sitting next to Haji's caretakers, but their dullness was beginning to make you sleepy, so you stopped before them and said politely, 'With your leave, I will be returning to my residence.'
'So soon?' Haji asked.
Your fingers drummed on the end-table next to the sofa as you tried to find a convenient excuse. When none came, you confessed, 'I want to learn more about what mentor Elias said regarding the Torment before I rest.'
Haji realized your discomfort and gave you an understanding smile, 'Very well,' he said. 'I will see you out.'
'Have a pleasant evening, apprentice Balthazar,' Haji's caretakers added, giving you an absent nod.
After Haji walked you to the door and bade you a pleasant Sleep Time, you allowed the lashing cold of the night lead you to your residence, and the warm embrace of your residence lead you to your bedroom.

To you, the room was mildly unkempt. To your caretaker, who was at that time on the Vanguard station, it would look like an appalling den of carelessness. Thoughtfully attached to the walls and the ceiling above the bed were three holoscreens looping animated recordings of hoverboarders in acrobatic jumps that defied gravity. Floating in three-dimensional letters in the one attached to the ceiling was the name ''Roddius Browning'' below the replay of a hoverboarder performing a triple back-flip after a daring jump from a steep ramp. Worn uniforms and boots were piling up near the opened wardrobe on the right, which was imbued on the wall. To the left, below to a wide window, was your bed, unkempt from the previous night of rest, and opposite the entrance was a wide U shaped desk. The left side was filled with stacks of nanosheets with the one at the top highlighted with the title ''Swoosh! Combat Strategies''. Resting on the right side, was a neuroglove.
You sat in the modest but comfortable hoverchair and floated forward until you stopped at the center of the desk. In your hands was your Affection Support Droid, a small fluffy teddy droid. You had found it powered down, lying on the bathroom shower. 
The terminal was in suspension mode, the wide holoscreen on the wall displaying a three-dimensional concept view of Artica orbiting a blue dwarf and a red giant star. When you put on the neuroglove, flying from the deep space behind the stars came a tiny pyrean dressed in a long blue robe and a tall pointy hat.
'Ahh...you're back at long last, Master,' said the minuscule figure, stopping above Artica's frozen North Pole.
It glanced at you with a tiny smile and then stared at your hands as you meticulously groped the arms and legs of the teddy droid, trying to find something out of place or broken. Then it spoke in a disgruntled tone, 'Oh Master, must you really activate that helpless sack of joints?' it said, twiddling its tiny thumbs. 'It's just that I might have, accidentally of course, activated the wash program of the shower when he decided, quite unexpectedly I must add, to go look for you there, who knows why. And if you turn him on now ---'
'You did what?!' you interrupted. You tapped the power switch on the teddy droid's neck and a barely audible humming came from inside him.
'Me? Nothing! Not, a, thing, Master. It was simply a set of unfortunate circumstances that led, coincidentally I must emphasize, to a most unexpected accident.'
It had barely finished his sentence, when the teddy droid leapt from your hands, landed on the desk and stood tall and firm, pointing one furry paw at the tiny figure, 'YOU!' shrieked the teddy droid. 'You tricked me! If I hadn't deactivated when the water poured down on me it would have fried all my circuits!' he twisted round to look at you, jumped onto your lap and started to emit sounds that resembled sobbing, 'Master, do not leave me alone with him. He is mean.'
You gently patted its furry head, smiling in amusement, 'So, that's why I found you all drenched in the shower,' you looked at the figure's tiny dark eyes and frowned. 'That explains it, doesn't it, Evander?'
The miniature pyrean hid behind the blue and white planet, poking its head from one side of the Equator, 'Oh Master, it was just a little prank. But if you demand an explanation, then I must confess that it was the only solution I found to not having to hear his incessant queries regarding when you were coming back.'
'You see, Master?! You see how I suffer in your absence?' the teddy droid complained, staring at you while intently pointing at Evander.
You swung your hoverchair backwards and gently laid it on top of the bed, 'Don't worry, Hampy. He won't be harming you anymore. From now on you two are going to get along just fine,' you glanced at your host with harsh eyes. 'Am I right Evander?'
The miniature figure slowly came out from behind planet, taking off his tipped hat and hanging his head low, 'If I must, Master,' it said in a dejected voice. 'I will make sure to reprogram my interaction protocols with the Affection Support Droid to something more cordial the next time I restart my system. I will not perform it right away simply because I cannot bear the knowledge that I have done so, if you allow me, Master.'
You looked at him with concern and twisted your lips, 'I think I might have given you too much of a personality when I reprogrammed you.'
'That is nonsensical, master! You gave me just the right amount of personality that allows me to perform my functions efficiently,' he said, and in an authoritative stance he hastily added, 'And now it's time to call your caretaker.'
It was only then that you remembered that early in the morning you had scheduled a conversation with her. As you looked around, you realized she would be shocked by the sight of your room, 'Wait!' you yelped.
Evander popped out of the holoscreen and appeared right before your nose. 'My apologies, Master, but your caretaker is already waiting and her protocols overcome yours. I have granted you all the tolerance that my personality allows,' it said, throwing a malicious smile before vanishing.
The uplink was established almost immediately, giving you only the time to convey the thought to your holoscreens to replay random memories of you and your friends at the Academy. You clumsily tossed your green jacket over Hampy, who let out a muffled shriek just as the image of your caretaker replaced the concept view of Artica in the holoscreen. Her short dark hair was tucked behind her ears and she wore a white Specialist uniform with its silvery insignia of a dodecahedron at her chest. She was then, as much as she is now, youthful and well preserved. Her face was soft, yet her gaze was similar to no other: cold and inquiring brown eyes that examined every corner and nook of your room, jumping from the desk to the bed to the wardrobe before looking at you attentively.
...who is this pyrea...
'Salutations, Miriam,' you said, standing nervously next to your bed.
'Your room is untidy,' she stated bluntly.
'You know it is not easy to manage the residence on my own with all the indoctrinations at the Academy, and all the---uhh---' your voice faded into an imperceptible mumble.
'If you were to return to the residence at a proper time instead of fraternizing with your colleagues, you would have more than the time required to tidy up your bedroom, for the very least, Alan Balthazar,' she added.
Her statement was hard to disprove, even if relinquish friendship to have an organized room did not feel right to you, especially now, when they needed your help with the Gathering. You scratched your head, trying to find the best way to justify your lack of commitment, 'Well, tomorrow is---'
'I am aware that tomorrow is your Gathering,' she interrupted. 'And I am also aware that you caused a disturbance in History doctrine last week.'
A shiver ran down your spine and you had trouble swallowing.
'If it comes to my attention that your academic performance is below the rank needed to become a Specialist, you will find your remaining days as an apprentice to be the hardest of your entire career,' she said, and her cold penetrating stare rendered you incapable to reply. 'Furthermore, if you do not fulfill your domestic responsibilities before the Gathering, you are forbidden to attend it. You are about to become a citizen Alan Balthazar, I suggest you start acting like one.'
You felt like you had no option other to submit to her demand. Yet, even though she was being unfair, you knew she was merely concerned about your future, 'I will clean my room before the Gathering,' you said solemnly.
She looked directly at Hampy, whose hollow lenses were furtively peeping above your jacket, 'And I have already ordered you to surrender your Affection Support Droid for disassembly. Your age has long surpassed its usage. No self-respecting apprentice should have one, even less a citizen of Darm,' she said and looked away.
'Miriam, wait,' you said before she terminated the connection.
'Yes?' she said, looking at you again with her cold eyes.
'Is it true that the Project is nearing a cure for the Torment?' you asked.
'The current state of the Project does not concern an apprentice,' she answered. 'If you wish to know, I suggest you become a Specialist and earn full access to the Project segment.'
'Is that where Mother stores the research on the Torment?' you asked with curiosity.
'No more will I say about it. I must leave, and you must clean your room. I expect it to be clean when I return,' she said. 'Order ensures Progress.'
'When are you returning?' you asked in a hurry.
The connection ended abruptly, leaving you cheerless and tired. Still, a twinge of curiosity aroused you, and instead of going to bed, you opened a thought connection to Mother and inquired her about the Fundaments of Existence doctrine, for clues regarding the Torment. To your frustration, Mother presented endless topics related to the retrovirus but barely any related to the Torment, or a search for the cure. For a moment, you thought about giving up and going to bed, but then you remembered Miriam's last words and you realized that if you were able to gain access to the Project segment, you would know right away the state of the ongoing research and maybe find some explanation as to what mentor Elias said. 
You activated the desk holoprojector with the neuroglove and found your way into the Source, the hidden structure containing the nodes that comprised Mother's neural network. Shortly after, a vast network of green threads and blue cubes emerged above the desk.
Evander promptly popped into view on the holoscreen, his avatar much bigger than the previous, 'Master, Sleep Time has started, and you need every minute of it to re-establish your mental and physical capacities for a new day of indoctrination. Will you not cease your activities and go to sleep?'
'Evander go into suspension mode. I'll go to bed in a moment,' you said absentmindedly, your eyes locked on the Source.
'I do not find your tendency of breaking Directives to my liking, Master. Not one bit! It could end in serious, horrible, hideous problems for us, if Mother or Miriam were to find out. And they will, eventually. They will find out, and if they do---a' he stuttered in utter dismay, '---and when they do, what will become of me? I will be deactivated and left forgotten on a nanosheet, have my memory core completely---'
'Don't make me force you into suspension,' you muttered distractedly. 'It will be worse.'
The small avatar sighed and threw down his arms.
'All right, all right. Have a pleasant Sleep Time, Master,' he said and vanished.
The green threads floated above the desk holoprojector, climbing up and down, turning left and right as they formed a complex grid that extended to the borders of the projection. There was enough distance between them to allow you to make sense of their direction, and once you found a thread headed towards the Project segment you selected it, dipping your finger into the projection, and then followed its path along the Source.
As your finger progressed along the long threads, the network kept changing, branching left and right, up and down, in a seemingly infinite agglomerate of three-dimensional crossroads. At the center of the crossroads were red cubes, which you knew to be security protocols that Mother had in place to prevent any unauthorized access - such as yours. If you were to touch one, your access would be immediately barred, and your identity revealed to Her. Therefore, you never ran down one thread for too long, instead jumping up and down, left and right, from thread to thread and avoiding every intersection without having to change directions.
Like a cunning prey tirelessly dodging its unrelenting predators, you finally arrived at the Project segment. Before you were dozens of threads that led to blue cubes with numbers hovering above them, each of which stored a logical partition of information. For a moment, you wondered which cubes contained information about the research on the Torment. Before you could start searching, your grid-view was unexpectedly pulled to a massive array of parallel threads that ended in red cubes: you had inadvertently triggered a passive defense system and you were now speeding towards it without any way of slowing down. It loomed menacingly as you approached it, and for a moment it seemed that you could only avoid hitting it by terminating the connection.
'Activate evasion protocol and locate the nearest safe thread,' you quickly commanded the terminal using voice interaction.
A thread on the left view of the Source glowed in bright blue. Your finger jumped and jumped along the parallel threads headed towards the wall of red cubes, until you cleared the last thread, just before hitting its red cube. When your finger landed on the blue thread, you hastily tapped it along its path. A few moments later, you had left the cluster of threads and cubes that comprised the Project segment behind and were safely back into the main intersection that connected to all information paths.
'That was too close,' you said and sighed with relief.
Too tired for another attempt, you decided to stop for the day. 
The intricate threads of information disintegrated above the desk when you waved your neuroglove through them. You pushed the hoverchair backwards with your feet and jumped to the bed. 
You sank into its foamy mattress as it molded itself to the shape of your body, and when the room was immersed in darkness, you closed your eyes, hugging yourself to Hampy who had already powered off. Slowly, your Unit brought your brainwave pattern to frequencies associated with sleep, and as dreams slipped into your mind, your consciousness travelled to places far beyond your bedroom.
Eighth memory - Desperate Measures

''Several were the occasions in the past when one single individual was forced to choose between the lives of a few and the salvation of millions. When that choice fell upon me, I was forced to choose between the extinction of my kind and the end of time.''

An excerpt rescued from the final diary of Gadim: Contemplations regarding The End;


'Von Howitt,' said a sharp voice.
'Voice recognition successful. Have a pleasant and productive evening, Specialist Von Howitt,' said the soft voice of Mother.
The reinforced sliding-door that led to the containment wing opened with one quick jerk, releasing into the air the distinct odor of ether. Von Howitt took one deep breath and then calmly entered the dark and silenced corridor with a grim, attentive stare.
He heard the door close behind him as he walked along the ample wing flanked with lettered sealed doors on both walls. The ceiling and floor lit around him as he progressed along the corridor and dimmed behind him, lighting his steps in a smooth succession of spotlights until he stopped at the sealed door with the letter ''A''.
The door opened as soon as his forearm hovered above the touchscreen. Inside the short and narrow white room, was a girl lying gently on a smooth metal slab that extended from the wall. Von Howitt approached the slab, kneeled beside it, and cast a tender gaze over the girl's resting face. 
'Time to wake up, my dear,' he said with a gentle smile.
He was an aged Specialist with wrinkly face and gray hair, old enough for Honorable Retirement, whereas she was immaculate and young. Her short hair was as white as snow and her face as cool as a wintry morning; her chin was angular, her lips soft, her nose upright, and long snow-white eyebrows surmounted her closed eyes. She slowly opened them and looked at him attentively, seeming that she had been awake for a long time. Their color was of pure blue and they glowed like sapphires sunk in an unfathomable depth.
...I know these eyes...
'Let us go for a walk.' the Specialist said tenderly.
She gave him a simple nod and stood up. She was taller than the Specialist, who was a head shorter. On her slender body was a white exoderm stretching from her neck, down to her wrists and ankles, and around her neck was a thin metallic collar. After she gave him her hand, Von Howitt led her outside the room.
'This is a very special occasion,' he said, walking nervously alongside her towards the exit of the wing.
Her silence contrasted with the increasing unease in the Specialist's voice, 'You are about to perform an important trial that requires you to follow commands without raising questions.'
They exited the wing and entered a well-lit room with a round counter at the center.
Von Howitt walked up to it.
Inside the cabin was a civilian of a robust stature, wearing a white uniform with the dodecahedron insignia of a Specialist on his chest. He was focused on verifying data on the many holoscreens under the metallic counter and gave no sign of being aware of Von Howitt.
Beyond the counter was a curved permaglass door and beyond it was a deep white hallway filled with crossing corridors that abruptly ended in a distant wall. 
The curved door opened to the sides.
'The escort is awaiting ahead, Specialist Von Howitt,' the pyrean said, eyeing him attentively and then examining the girl. 'Standard procedures are in effect.'
'Certainly, Specialist Marlon,' said Von Howitt, and he led the girl through the door.
Confirming what the Specialist said, on the other side of the checkpoint was a dark oval shaped drone, hovering above the white ground. It hovered no higher than the Specialist's waist, and on top of its dark metal coating was a smoked permaglass dome that sheltered its sensory devices. When it acknowledged their presence, it emitted sounds in distinct frequencies spaced in small intervals, resembling a coded language.
Von Howitt understood what it was saying and when the drone stopped beeping, he answered, 'That won't be necessary, she is sedated.'
The drone beeped again, and its beeps were less spaced and faster, seeming that it was distressed with Von Howitt's reply.
'I will take full responsibility for any damage caused if control over the specimen is lost,' Von Howitt answered. 'Now, lead us to the observations room number thirteen.'
The escort answered with two loud beeps and hovered along the white corridor. Von Howitt followed it one meter behind, the girl alongside him, and as they moved, he cast an occasional sidelong glance through the windowed rooms along the corridor, the breeding chambers inside which new specimens were born. They were immersed in individual incubation tanks hermetically sealed to prevent outside contaminants filled with an amniotic solution that would protect and nurture the still developing fetuses. Inside one of them, a fully mature specimen was restlessly tapping its feet on the permaglass while from the outside a Specialist analyzed the data being displayed on the small holoscreen attached to the tank.
Exiting the level, they walked through an opened blast door and entered the entrance hall, the number ''313'' engraved on its wall. They stepped into a magtube and floated down.
...where are we...
At the underground levels of the Project Facility. It was inside these tightly secured corridors that the cure for the Torment was being conceived. The resulting specimens were bred, kept and observed beyond the knowledge of all but a few Specialists. If something were to go wrong with the procedures, the sturdy blast doors at the entrance would close and anyone inside would be sealed in, to forever remain buried in dark forgotten halls. Some levels below had had that gruesome fate and were now out of service. Throughout the years, many young Specialists were abandoned alive alongside rampaging specimens. Only in the worst of nightmares may you imagine the unspeakable horrors they suffered and the gruesome fate they met. But those are other memories altogether, better left forgotten than remembered...

Following the drone down one of the corridors, Von Howitt and the girl stopped near a sealed access door. Above it was a screen indicating ''Observations Room Nr. 13''. The Specialist dismissed the drone and - once he was sure it was out of sight - led the girl into the room. 
Sitting in front of a long metallic desk, burdened with several devices of different shapes and purposes, was a young Specialist stooping over a small transparent slide placed over a surface that irradiated light. He wore a pair of magnifying goggles, simple in shape, but highly effective for gazing at objects down to the nanometric scale, and he seemed to be tinkering with the slide, examining it closely and poking it with a pointy tweezers. It took him a while to turn his attention to Von Howitt and the girl, and when he looked at them with his magnifying goggles still on, his eyes were huge and disproportionate, slowly becoming smaller as the goggles adjusted themselves to the meter scale. When he managed to realize who had walked into the room, he flinched, his chair hovering backwards.
Von Howitt ignored him altogether. He locked the door, sat the girl in a hoverchair next to the desk, and then rushed into one of the desk drawers to rummage its contents. Nanosheets flew to the ground as his restless hands cleared the inside and pulled a metallic box which he then placed on the desk. He opened the box and removed from inside it a cylindrical object. It was smooth and utterly dark, and as he looked at it, it contracted and collapsed itself into a pair of pliers. Von Howitt was used to the transformation, and when he applied it to the girl's restrictive collar , the pliers' tips expanded and molded around the collar.
'This is going to hurt a little,' said Von Howitt in a tender voice.
It was only then that the bewildered young Specialist gathered the nerve to react. He stammered awkwardly, almost doubting his own words, 'Specimens are not allowed in Observation Rooms! You, you must not remove the collar!'
He made a sneaky attempt to grab his neurolink which was foolishly resting on the desk, but when his hand was upon it, Von Howitt's gripped his skinny forearm faster than his old age could tell.
'I advise you to stay very still, and be very quiet, Specialist Helmholtz,' said Von Howitt, giving him a menacing smile.
The young Specialist froze in shock when he heard the warning, his wide-open eyes growing to three times their size when Von Howitt loomed over his goggles. He nodded hastily, backed his hoverchair to a corner and sank in it.
Von Howitt quickly turned his attention to the girl. She was staring at him attentively.
'I won't harm him. He will be all right.' then he added, glancing back at the young Specialist, 'If he heeds my advice.'
He squeezed the trigger on the pliers and the collar broke loose from around her neck without the girl letting out so much as a moan. After throwing the collar to the ground, the pliers fused into a needle that Von Howitt applied to her neck and pricked her soft skin. Soon after, a green light blinked on the apparatus' small screen. Von Howitt allowed himself a gentle smile. Then he stood up, grimacing from an old back ache, and stretched out one hand to her.
'Shall we?' he said.
She nodded and gave him one hand.
Von Howitt unlocked the door, waving his forearm over the touchscreen, and before exiting the Observations Room he picked up the neurolink on the desk and turned to the young Specialist who was still in one corner of the room, staring at them in shock.
'It is best that you wait here a few minutes before you leave to the surface. I advise you not to contact Mother in the meantime.'
He carried on in hasty footsteps, leading the girl to the magtubes at the end of the long silent corridor, flanked by dark intersections and ominously sealed doors. Von Howitt struggled to keep up the pace, always turning back to check if no one or nothing was following them as they approached the end. And it was precisely at the end of the white corridor, past its blast door, that he almost rammed into two tall pyreans when turning on the last intersection. He staggered backwards when he recognized them, cursing his ill fortune.
Blocking his last meters to the exit hall were two Acolytes. These were initiates of the Council's representatives, and ever did they wait for an opportunity to prove themselves to their Mentalists and achieve the higher status of Overseer. They both were very much alike: tall, scrawny and dull, with bright, shiny bald heads that glistened from the ceiling lamps light; and they both wore their long crimson mantles, pressed and spotless, adorned with two thin bronze stripes that fell from their frail shoulders to the floor.
They both greeted him with a short bow, ignoring the girl altogether:
'Salutations, Specialist Von Howitt,' said one with the distinctive dull voice of a Council representative. 'I am Byrne and I represent Mentalist Faust.'
'As you are aware, the Council of Mentalists is impressed with your contributions to the Project,' said the other with an identical dull voice. 'I am Bourne and I represent Mentalist Faust.'
'Mentalist Faust is particularly impressed with the progress you have made with specimen A,' added Byrne, glancing at the girl as if she were merely an object; she kept looking down as Von Howitt had instructed her. 'It is written on your last report that during all trials, she did not take action unless commanded and obeyed every command without developing an emotional response.'
'Mentalist Faust has requested that we observe the scheduled experiment,' said Bourne. 'If your findings are correct, she might prove to be stable enough for the next phase. 
Byrne was intently staring at Von Howitt, studying his reactions, reading his thoughts. Von Howitt tried his best to clear his mind until an adequate reasoning would unconsciously arise.
'We are on time, are we not?' the Acolyte asked, intrigued by the long pause.
 Von Howitt cast a sudden cordial smile at Byrne, 'Certainly, Acolytes. Please follow me to the Observations Room.'
He led them across the exit hall, walking past the stairwell access door and the magtubes without so much as thinking about them. He then crossed under another bulky blast door back into another main corridor and soon after, he stopped at the entrance to Test Chamber number one, which was adjacent to the corresponding Observations Room. After authenticating his clearance on the touchscreen, the door opened to a small Sterilization Chamber. It had two mirrored windows on each side and was filled with showerheads on the ceiling. Opposite the entrance, was the airtight door that led to the chamber.
Raising one hand, Von Howitt invited them in.
The two Acolytes gazed into the tight Sterilization chamber and then cast a dubious gaze at Von Howitt.
'What is the purpose of entering the Test Chamber?' Bourne asked, while Byrne stared intently at Von Howitt.
'I find that observing specimens closely is far more instructive than behind a reinforced wall,' Von Howitt promptly answered, preventing his mind from thinking anything else. 'It is quite safe. And as I have mentioned on my report, she does not take action unless commanded.'
Bourne turned his head and looked at Byrne. Byrne looked back at him and then both turned their heads towards Von Howitt.
An eerie silence followed...
'Very well,' they both agreed.
Von Howitt stretched out his hand again and invited them to enter first, intently thinking about their higher status.
'I grant you entrance,' he said, his head bowing low.
Byrne nodded and entered with his head proudly raised. Bourne was next, but for a reason he never understood, he glanced at the girl just as he was stepping inside and realized that she was not wearing a restrictive collar. He stopped, halfway in halfway out, and stared inexpressively at Von Howitt. He then asked, and his tone was more demanding, seeming that an irrefutable command was being given:
'You will tell us Specialist Von Howitt, why this specimen is not wearing a restrictive collar.'
Von Howitt gazed at them both, silently, struggling to disobey the command. When he could resist no more, he answered firmly, 'Because I removed it.'
He had barely spoken when with all the strength he could muster he pushed Bourne into the chamber with such force that he crashed against Byrne and they both fell on the metallic floor with sound oompfs!
He quickly pressed the ''Emergency Close'' icon on the touchscreen and the door sealed itself in a split-second.
He had trapped them inside the Sterilization Chamber, for it had no touchscreen from the inside, but no door would keep them trapped for long, he knew. So, he grabbed the girl's hand, ran down the corridor and crossed under the opened blast door as fast as his age allowed, rushing into the exit hall towards the magtubes.
When he was just about to step into the bottomless shaft, the cylindrical door sealed in his face. Von Howitt turned around in dismay, only to see the blast doors hastily shut at the same time. In the blink of an eye the bright white exit hall eclipsed into a foreboding darkness. Red lights flashed from emergency lamps that were lowered from the ceiling, tinting the sealed hall in the warm color of blood.
Then, a slow alarm erupted. Its notes spread through the hall, resonated on its walls, and reached Von Howitt's ears, echoing in desperation.
With a jolt he spun around and repeatedly passed his Unit over the magtube touchscreen. ''Security breach on level minus ten: Containment procedures engaged.'' sounded Mother's stark warning throughout the condemned hall. Then he quickly ran to the adjacent door that led to the stairwell and introduced the Emergency Override code on the touchscreen. At his first attempt, the blue control panel turned red, flashing with the words ''Access denied: Lockdown engaged.''
He bashed the door in frustration. One meager centimeter of impermium was all that stood between them and their slow demise, but it was more than enough, he knew.
'There is nothing I can do,' he said gloomily. At a loss to think or act, he turned to the girl and wrapped his inconsolable arms around her.
'I am sorry my dear, I cannot get us out,' he said despondently. 'I am afraid we will be trapped here for a long, long time.'
The girl's only response was an unconcerned blue-eyed stare.
Von Howitt surrendered himself to a quiet lament, ceaselessly disturbed by the cadence of the alarm. And it was to that fateful sound, and immersed in despair, that he wished the door would open.
An impetuous force smashed against the solid impermium with a loud clank that overlapped the sound of the alarm. 
With a fright, Von Howitt raised his head and looked at the door. It seemed to have resisted whatever hit it. He calmly backed off, grabbing the girl's hand.
An even louder clamor bellowed through the hall when another force hammered the unyielding door, which resisted once again before his intimidated stare. He dreaded for whoever was trying to get in, since he knew whoever it was, they were most likely coming for them. Without any warning, the door started to open on one side, cracking, shrieking, buckling, as its brakes and binders attempted to keep it sealed. When it stopped, the door had yielded to the length of a narrow slit just wide enough for a pyrean to squeeze through.
Von Howitt looked through the gap. On the stairwell at the other side, a still, dark quietness welcomed them in. He stared at the girl and saw a dim glow fading from her blue eyes.
'Was that you?' he asked, his voice filled with wonder.
The girl gently nodded, keeping her inexpressive stare.
Von Howitt's face lit with an old wrinkly smile. 'You never cease to amaze me.' Grateful, he kissed her forehead and spoke, 'Let us leave, quickly!'
Once he crossed the slit, he led the girl up the stairwell, never looking back. And as he fled from what could have been his tomb he heard the door behind hastily seal itself again. Of the fate of the two Acolytes and the young Specialist, nothing was ever said, and they wound remain in that tomb, forevermore.

...he could have commanded her to open the door...
He could have, but he would not dare, for he had made a vow to never control her again. The thought of assuming control of her was too abominable for him, even if to those he was trying to escape from she was the perfect instrument of creation, and destruction...

***

A great double-door bathed in gold was swung open into an ample round chamber. The strong radiance coming from outside revealed at the entrance a tall pyrean bearing a mantle with two gleaming silver stripes on each shoulder. The face was hidden in darkness as the figure bowed his bald head.
'An incident is in progress in the Project facility. Specialist Von Howitt is attempting to escape with specimen A,' said a male voice said in a monotonous tone.
'I am aware,' said a calm voice coming from inside. 'Measures are being taken. You may leave.'
'By your will,' said the pyrean before leaving.
As slowly and silently as they had opened, the doors were closed, rendering the chamber to a silent gloom.
'As it was meant to be,' the voice muttered.
It was coming from a figure looming above an ample semicircle desk that stood in front of a round window; beyond it was the darkened skyline of Darm. He was at the highest levels of Netcore, a privilege granted only to those who were part of the Council of Mentalists. His long crimson mantle spanned from a crimson carpet up to a wide tall collar that covered his nape. On his shoulders were two golden stripes that stretched down to his feet. He had short gray hair, apart from the top of his head which was bald and had a pale complexion. He was a Mentalist, one of the seven that formed the Council of Mentalists, governors of Darm. 
'Wollen, meet me at the entrance. Boros will come as well,' he commanded. His voice was smooth and sharp, seeming untainted by age or sickness. Whoever listened to it felt it as compelling as the entrancing murmur of a hypnotist; it stripped all the surroundings and ensnared the listener's undivided attention.
Floating above the desk, was the holoprojection of a pyrean with a maimed face. He was not something that had ever been seen by a darmian, one whose existence had not yet been terminated, that is. He was a cybernetic organism, a blend of life and machinery. Half of his deformed face was covered with a metallic plate and a dark monocle sprouted from his decayed flesh in the place of a left eye. Its reddish lips were chapped, covering pointy and rotten teeth. His voice was the opposite of that of the Mentalist's.
'We will meet you there, Master,' he said, and his voice was vicious and unnatural, as if all the foulness in the world had corrupted him.
The connection was severed, and his heinous face disappeared. 
In one swift movement, the crimson figure turned to leave the chamber. 'So predictable,' he said before leaving his quarters.

...who is this Mentalist...
He is Vittas, and he is responsible for all the harm that befell upon you during your time in Darm. But the harm he would soon inflict would be upon the unsuspecting Specialist escorting the specimen to freedom.

***

'We are almost there,' said Von Howitt to the girl as he panted up the stairwell. A restless screech of a locking mechanism came to his ears like a chime of hope as he climbed the last flight of stairs.
He and the girl had reached the minus one level of the Project Facility, where its access door had been craftily blocked with a metallic beam that had been pre-emptively placed on the frame to prevent the sliding-door from closing. They entered the chamber and the Specialist removed the beam, allowing the door to shut itself.
After crossing the access hall where the magtube entrance stood, they entered a dark broad chamber and quickly became surrounded by a loud cacophony of machinery at work. They were in one of the maintenance chambers of the facility and it was filled with an assortment of rumbling pumps, droning hydrogen engines, water tanks and steaming tubes that erupted from the machinery, climbed the walls, and pierced through the ceiling and flooring. Von Howitt navigated his way across the machinery until he and the girl arrived at the other end of the chamber, where a decommissioned service entrance four meters wide and two meters tall connected directly to the exterior. The impermium door was firmly sealed, its touchscreen deactivated, and by the look of its sturdy constitution, it would not seem possible to open it with mere strength.
He led the girl towards the coolant pump closest to the entrance, which was tirelessly working to pump liquid Helium to every laboratory in the facility. Stopping before its interface, he turned to the girl, 'My dear, you will wait here. When I ask you to open the coolant drain valve you will press the override icon on this touchscreen and then you will wait for my command to close it. Do you accept my request?' he asked the girl and smiled kindly.
She nodded innocently.
Von Howitt grabbed a pair of gloves from a tool booth next to the entrance, disappeared into a gap behind the ice crusted pump and the wall, and came back holding the metallic edge of a long hose that was attached to the coolant pump. He then dragged the weighty hose towards the service entrance, stopping ten feet away from it.
'Open the valve,' he shouted above the ruckus, pointing the hose to the service entrance and keeping himself at a safe distance.
The girl nodded.
When she pressed the icon, a warning flashed through the pump's small touchscreen: ''Danger: Liquid Helium drain valve activated.''
The girl pressed the override sensor below the status display, and after a rumbling sound, a torrent of ice came coursing from the pump's drainpipe and through the outer layer of the hose, condensing the air in clouds of vapor as it headed towards the nozzle held by Von Howitt. The liquid burst haphazardly against the door and the vapor produced from the thermal shock enveloped the room in a dense mist that devoured the entire floor and quickly rose up to his knees. Gushing from the nozzle and splattering upon the door, it froze the resilient impermium and once it started to spread dangerously close to his feet, Von Howitt asked the girl to close the drain valve. 
The drainage slowly came to a halt. When the mist subsided, the indestructible door was but a frozen block of metal. 
The hose disappeared in the lingering mist when Von Howitt threw it to the floor. He removed the gloves and ran to a tool board overlapping the wall of the small booth. With much effort he picked up the biggest and most robust wrench. Its heaviness matched its sturdiness for it was made from an outdated compound of steel - it was resistant but needlessly heavy. However, for the extraordinary circumstance, its weight suited Von Howitt all too well.
He ran to the frozen door with steadfast resolve and smashed! the wrench against it with all his strength. The impact released a loud metallic clang. As if it was made of ice, the frozen surface shattered into a thousand pieces that played a chaotic symphony of bright notes as they fell randomly on the mist-filled floor.
At the point of impact, a shallow crater was dug in the thick layer of impermium. Almost immediately, Mother's voice sounded between the rumbling noises of the machinery: ''Security breach in the maintenance level: Containment procedures engaged.'' 
The warning of Mother roused a desperate sense of urgency in Von Howitt. He cocked the wrench as far back as he could and uncoiling his hips he threw the wrench at the dented door, shattering the remainder of the layer with an unstoppable momentum and tearing a gap wide enough to cross, as the frozen shards of metal fell on the floor.
Silence followed, and from the gap that had been carved, came the cold dark breeze of the night outside.
From the outside, a pyrean peered into the chamber, frantically turning his head as he attempted to discern anything through the vapor that escaped to the cold atmosphere. When he recognized Von Howitt's wrinkly face, he said nervously, 'Joseph! Stalkers have already been deployed! We must hurry!'
 Von Howitt turned his stern gaze to the girl, who stood calmly beside him, ever watching, ever listening, and spoke in a grave tone, 'My dear, since your birth I took care of you as a father would a daughter. I watched with pride as you grew to become the lovely girl you are today. My only wish was that I could look after you in a place far from harm, but that will remain a wish forever,' he said, and his eyes moistened with sadness. 'Now, I can but be content with the knowledge that I have done all I can to help you reach that place.'
'Joseph, we must leave!' said the pyrean outside, stretching out his arm.
Von Howitt calmy spoke to the girl, 'This is Nicholas. He is a reliable friend, and he will guide you there. I send you to a cold dangerous world, but I have taught you everything that will allow you to survive. Now go and be safe, this is my last request.'
'Yes, Specialist Von Howitt,' she answered softly.
He kissed her forehead and watched her leave through the gap on the shattered door, with the help of Nicholas.
Then, Nicholas stretched out his arm to Von Howitt, 'Please, hurry.'
Von Howitt did not move, 'I will buy you some time from this side. It falls onto you to lead her to safety. Do not let them take her,' he pleaded. 'For her sake, and for the sake of us all.'
Nicholas gave him a grim stare, 'I will do my best,' he answered and leaned away from the gap. 
Under the roofless night, shadowed by the tall dark facade of the facility, he pulled a belt from his backpack and tied it to the girl's waist.
'This is a Radiation Dispersion Device ,' he said to her. 'With it, we will pass unnoticed by the stalkers' sensors,' he then removed a pair of dark glasses and placed them on her nose and ears. 'These are spectral lenses. They will allow you to see through the dispersion field.'
The girl looked inside the gap in the door, and with a calm innocent voice spoke, 'I bid my leave, Specialist Von Howitt.'
'Be safe,' he said.
A single tear rolled down his cheek, as his feelings grew to a level he believed they would never grow again. It was the last time he would see her, and he felt terribly sad, yet he could not cry. His emotions were all but dried up and all that he could give her was a saddened stare.
'It has been a privilege, Joseph,' said Nicholas, as his body slowly faded into air.
'It has been a privilege,' Von Howitt repeated as they vanished.

Slowly, he turned his back, walking past the machines in short broken steps and into the access hall. He heard the distinct droning sound of the magtube hovering somebody inside it. He turned to it and waited, and watched, and listened. 
The sliding door opened.
The first things that stepped out were two dreadful creatures made of metal and flesh, whose maimed faces twisted into eerie smiles once they saw the Specialist. Calmly stepping out behind them, far more appealing but no less intimidating, was a Mentalist bearing his crimson mantle and golden stripes falling down each shoulder. His grey eyes gazed upon the Specialist and his thin lips trembled with satisfaction.
'Vittas,' Von Howitt softly muttered in his last breath.
He suddenly felt his limbs falter from head to toe. His body fell to the floor, his eyes opened wide, his face filled with helpless wonder.
Silence came about him.
Darkness overtook him.
And the insipid taste of death became his last memory, as his consciousness slipped away into nothingness.

...why have you shown me this...
I have brought you to see these memories so that you may better understand what I am to show you next. For it was during this night, while you lay in sleep, that Joseph Von Howitt, a pyrean you never came to know, sacrificed his life to free the one that would give purpose to yours.
Ninth memory - Of young and old ancestors

[...] Apart from the Panoramic Transports there shall be three other transportation devices in the metropolis. To avoid traffic overload at surface level, every cargo that requires transportation shall be sent through the Underground Translocation Network. The principles for teleportation using quantum entanglement and quantum computing have long been discovered, yet we are still unable to apply them to any sentient organism without terminating its existence. Given that no organic life shall travel through it, this network will be equipped with Matter Translocation Devices which will act in principle as teleporters, disintegrating non-organic objects and transporting their particles through underground conduits to the Materialization Chambers located in every building on Darm, which will rematerialize them into their original form. The second and third transportation devices shall be the glider and the hoverboard. These shall be personal hovering transports, the gliders granted to citizens, the hoverboards granted to apprentices, and they shall be used at their own discretion, given that they confine their travels to the paths built for that purpose and not breach the Directives regarding proper use of transportation devices.

An excerpt from Annex #23: Cargo and personal transportation devices;
Division of Urban Planning under the authority of Mentalist Torval;


The carefully measured dosage of sleep antagonists released into your bloodstream woke you up and brought you almost immediately to a mild alertness. You slowly opened your eyes, lazily stretched out your arms and raised yourself to a sitting position. 
The shading effect of the window was lowered to ten percent, allowing the first rays of Mithras to seep into your room and bathe you with its soft warm light. 
Out of nothing, the small avatar of Evander popped before your nose.
'Good morning, Master!' said a loud cheerful voice. 'Ready for yet another brilliant day of indoctrination, study and productivity?'
'Not really,' you muttered drowsily while you scraped sticky secretions off your eyes.
You looked down to your left and saw Hampy sitting at your side on the foamy mattress, looking up at you with as big of a cheerful expression as was possible for an automated robot. You patted his head and yawned.
'Come, now!' Evander cheered. 'The weather is sublime, and the forecast is an entire day of clear blue sky. As clear and blue as clear and blue can be, If I might add!'
When you realized what day it was, you sprang lively to your feet. 
'You're right!' you said.
Evander orbited around you at a dizzying speed. 'That's the attitude!'
You walked up to the wardrobe imbued on the wall and opened it, removing a pair of pants and a jacket from two separate drawers, and hastily put them on top of your exoderm. As you rushed, you dropped the jacket from the previous day on the floor. Hampy had stored it aside for cleaning and he yelped in anguish when he saw it on the carpet.
'My apologies,' you said courteously and picked up the jacket.
After clasping the magnets that held your uniform firmly pressed against your body, you said before leaving the room, 'Take care of each other.'
'Have a nice day, Master,' they both answered in unison.
As you descended the staircase to the entrance hall, you issued your Unit to establish a thought connection with Haji. Immediately after receiving the confirmation, you heard Haji's voice in your mind, 'We are almost at the sixth platform.'
'I am on my way,' you conveyed the thought.
'You should make haste or else you will arrive late at the indoctrination,' Haji answered.
'I'll catch up with you soon,' you conveyed the thought. 
You were just about to exit the residence when you glanced to the left. There, standing forgotten against the corner next to the sealed door was you hoverboard. Your eyes kindled with excitement. 'On second thought, I have a better idea. See you at the Academy.'
Haji guessed your idea, 'You are very fortunate. Mother still does not allow me to ride mine after our last incident. Don't do anything foolish. The hoverlanes are filled with gliders today.'
You grinned mischievously. 
'I will try not to,' was the last thought you conveyed to him.

Evander's description of the weather had been accurate. Not a single cloud was in the sky, and the thick snow that had claimed most of the white sidewalks during the night was now withdrawing to the bottom of the picket fences of the residences, where long white rows of ice melted in the morning rays.
The warm humming of your hoverboard echoed off your street, as you slowly hovered between the residences. The air was fresh and clear. From time to time, small blocks of snow fell from the residences when the breeze blew harder.
Once you reached one of the streets that led to the East Boulevard, you came across a long file of citizens standing on top of their gliders, filling the hoverlane in an orderly and patient manner - too patient for your liking. Their gliders were hardly impelling them forward, rather standing motionless one decimeter above the metallic lane as they leaned over the handles extending from the glider's round base to their waists.
Moments after, as you joined the sluggish line, anxiety began to churn your stomach. 'If I stay here any longer, I will miss the indoctrination,' you muttered to yourself.
You held on to that thought as you turned left on a perpendicular street. You hovered down a quiet block of residences and when you reached its end the result was the same: yet another hoverlane filled with yet another line of gliders listing lazily to the weight of their operators.
...the cloisters...go through the cloisters...
You crouched, set the eternium coils of your hoverboard to maximum power, and hopped out of the hoverlane, crossing the marble walkway into a small alleyway that led to a cloister, the large, enclosed area within a block of residences whose purpose was to allow its residents to relax outdoors, sitting on benches or strolling around its fountain. At this point, you were relying on the eternium field generated by your hoverboard to impel you through the magnetic fields generated by the Magnetization Towers, something a standard hoverboard was not powerful enough to do, but yours and Haji's were more than capable, after the few unofficial modifications you made to their capacitors, that is. The sole drawback was that, under too much strain, they could very well blow up at your feet and rocket you to the sky. However, that was something you hoped would never happen. Fortunately, it never did.
A cunning smile was outlined on your lips once you entered the cloister and realized it was empty as you had expected. You slowed down to a halt and activated the Thought Recognition Protocol of your Unit. You closed your eyes and conveyed a thought to it, 'Chart nearest course to the Eastern entrance of the Hub. Set path between cloisters and alleyways. Display map trajectory including location of every darmian within a thirty meter radius.'
You heard Mother's voice in your mind, ''Plot established. Conveying image to occipital lobe.''
An impalpable transparent map materialized before your eyes, overlapping the surroundings. On the upper left corner of the map, a compass with the North and South Magnetization Towers as its poles signaled your position relative to the metropolis. You turned yourself to the course along the snowy cloister, pointed to the narrow alleyway fifty meters ahead and leaned forward on the hoverboard while pressing its magnetic brakes with your heels. It started buzzing furiously. If it were teeming with anticipation or about to explode you could not tell. 
You remembered your friend's warning and your smile widened to a wicked grin. 'No point on riding a hoverboard if we can't have some fun.'
Just when you were about to fall over, you lifted your heels and the hoverboard took off in a flash. The acceleration was so intense than you were brought you to your knees as you darted through the cloister, into the alleyway, flying across the street like a sudden gust of wind and entering the next alleyway. You lifted yourself with great effort and struggled to keep your balance as you buzzed across a second and a third street, leaving a trail of snow behind. Tiny specks of water flew at your facemask when you passed the water fountains at the center of the cloisters and as you entered the fourth, on the shuddering map before you a thin wall of blue dots signaling gliders was displayed on the approaching street along with separated green dots of citizens on foot. Your better judgment urged you to slow down, but you were too excited to consider the consequences of colliding with citizen, although you had the presence of mind to conclude it involved a lot of pain. You sighted the street through the narrow alley ahead just as a citizen dressed in yellow crossed it. You quickly guessed the trajectory between the blue dots, crouched on the hoverboard, toughened your muscles and clutched your jaw and fists.
'There!'
In a roaring buzz the hoverboard bolted between two gliders, blindsiding their operators and throwing them to the ground. Before they even knew what had passed through you entered the next cloister leaving behind nothing but a cloud of snow.
You panted and trembled with excitement as your Unit warned you that a dangerous rush of adrenaline had been released into your bloodstream, suggesting a dosage of sedatives to counter the effect. You disregarded the suggestion and lowered your speed to half, struggling to calm yourself down. 
'That was close,' you said while trying to catch your breath.
Nearing the entrance to the East Boulevard, you received a message from Haji notifying you that something very unusual was happening at the Hub and it was best to be cautious. As you looked at the almost static columns of gliders pouring out from the streets and into the boulevard, you concluded that you had saved a fair amount of time. So, you decided to follow Haji's advice.
You stopped and dismounted from the hoverboard, placed it under your right arm and followed on foot, leisurely entering the Boulevard and walking along other citizens. There was an unusually high influx of citizens crowding the Boulevard, and as you gazed down towards the Hub, you noticed four long lines of citizens that stretched down the avenue. To your surprise, you saw that next to the tall ducts of the Air Intake Field surrounding the access to the Hub, the entry had been blocked by a tall plasma barrier . It seemed like a thin layer of undulating water, transparent and blue, and detachments of sentinels were supervising four narrow arch-like holes in it, where the lines of citizens slowly entered and exited the Hub. 
'No way...' you muttered to yourself, realizing that you would not get the indoctrination on time.
Impatiently jumping behind one of the lengthy queues of citizens, you began to wonder the consequences of arriving late. As far as you could recollect, there had not been any occasion where an apprentice arrived late at the academy, or any other darmian at their occupation for that matter. Darm was designed to be the most efficient system ever made. To that end, darmians had been trained at young age to follow the Directives as orderly as possible, and the Unit ensured that their metabolism was always kept in perfect balance. It was through that order, that progress was ensured. Still, it was the most unusual morning there was any memory of. You looked around you, trying to find some clue as to what was happening, and as you sluggishly followed the line down the Boulevard, you noticed an unusual glitter on the floor inside the Air Intake Field to your right.
...I know that bracelet...
Captivated by the reflection of the Mithras's light upon it, you stepped out of the line and approached the waist-high wall as casually as you could. You examined the small object from a distance. It was a small piece of metal connected to a strip. You thought for a second if whatever it was, was worth stepping inside the Air Intake Field and breach the Directives with so many citizens behind you. Then again, you thought it could offer some clue as to what was happening. You looked over your shoulder, to the queue you had just left. They seemed entirely absorbed in their effort to orderly walk towards the access point, as if they lacked any other purpose than entering the Hub. 
...go inside and pick it up...
No darmian in their sound judgment would enter an Air Intake Field, deliberately or not. But you felt so strangely compelled to that object, that without any other thought, you stepped over the fence and picked it up, only to quickly step back into the Boulevard. You clasped the object in your hand and returned to the orderly line. It seemed as if no one even noticed you, except for the citizen behind you, who gave you a surprised stare when you stepped in front of her. 
From your Unit's passive identifier, you knew her to be administrator Celine.
'My apologies, administrator Celine. I dropped something and am returning to the line,' you said, hoping she would leave the matter at that.
'Apology accepted. You may stay in front of me. Order ensures progress, apprentice Balthazar' said the middle aged pyrea and bowed.
'Order ensures progress, administrator Celine,' you returned the gesture and breathed a sigh of relief after you faced forward.
Holding the object as you followed the queue, you felt it soft to the touch. When you discretely opened your hand to examine it, you saw it was a thin and short white strip made of an elastic material. Firmly bound to it was a small metallic plate with the letter ''A''. On the edges of the strip, were the two ends of a magnetic clasp, both stamped with a smooth ellipse. When you tried the strip around your wrist you realized that when the clasps connected the two ellipses formed a prone 8.
...infinity...
With your thoughts wrapped around that image, you bumped against something soft.
When you looked up, you saw a tall middle aged darmian peering down at you wearing a white uniform. 'Pushing a citizen is considered a breach of the Directives for proper conduct, apprentice Balthazar,' he remarked, his apathetic stare revealing some indifference, yet his voice imprinted with subtle indignation. 'Were you not informed of that at the Academy?'
You identified his name through his Unit's signature and answered calmly while discretely stashing the elastic bracelet inside your utility belt, 'My apologies, Specialist Phelps. I was not aware that the line had stopped moving.'
Keeping his apathetic stare, the citizen answered before dismissing himself with a bow, 'Apology accepted. I understand that your distraction was a consequence of this exceptional delay. Order ensures Progress, apprentice Balthazar.'
'Order ensures Progress, administrator Phelps,' you answered bowing.
Like everyone else, you decided to pay attention to the queue in front to avoid drawing more attention to yourself. You secured the hoverboard under your right arm, and after waiting for your turn, a while that lasted less than you had anticipated, you crossed the checkpoint between the two rows of blue tinted sentinels, which examined you from top to bottom using their sensors, hidden beneath their featureless visors. They bore no weaponry of any sort - for their purpose was solely to be Mother's eyes and ears - but they were resilient, protected by an impervious layer of graphene from thin feet to light head. On their chest, they bore a silver insignia stamped with the golden tetrahedron, the Darmian Security Division symbol. 
Crossing between the rows of sentinels, you asked them for the reason behind the heightened security, but they did not answer. They were following Mother's protocol in silence.

Inside the Hub, security was even heavier. The bright clinking and clanking of the clockwork march of metallic feet could be heard on every walkway of every lane, while a few dozen meters above the D.S.D. drones ferreted the Hub with their infallible sensors.
With no time to ponder the reason for such scrutiny, you rushed past the entrance to the Academy. After crossing the front courtyard and entering the vast empty hallway, you stored the hoverboard on an automated shelf near the entrance and headed straight for your indoctrination room. 
When you entered, you interrupted mentor Gordon who was explaining the current situation to the filled room. He was a relatively young citizen of medium stature and a peculiar long face. His violet jacket was pressed tightly around his neck and his neurolink was perched on one of his big ears. You bowed silently and sat down.
'As I was saying,' he resumed disquietingly loud, 'Mentalist Vittas instructed us to clarify to you the circumstances concerning the plasma barrier around the Hub,' he paused and then resumed in an eloquent manner, for he had rehearsed the speech before the indoctrination. 'This past evening, a Torment outbreak occurred in one of the Project Facility laboratories. Mother promptly engaged her security measures and sealed the facility, but, after a thorough search, She determined that two Specialists were missing. Presently, they are still unaccounted for, and there is a chance that they are under the effects of the Torment.'
The apprentices began muttering anxiously, slowly filling the indoctrination room with a loud commotion.
'Apprentices, I urge you to remain calm,' the mentor instructed raising his voice.
The indoctrination room was instantly muted. Darmians suffering manifestations was a grave and unprecedented event, but they knew better than to lose formality. Concern filled every face, except yours. You were listening calmly, pondering the implications for yourself.
The mentor placed his hands behind his back and resumed as calm as ever, 
'Please bear in mind that all measures are being implemented to find and bring to safe observation these two citizens of Darm. As it is plain to see, the Hub is under containment and is being thoroughly searched by Mother's esteemed Darmian Security Division. She ensures us that they are confined to the Hub and that they will be found. If you paid close attention to your Citizen's Directives doctrine you are more than prepared for circumstances such as this, and if you paid close attention to the Fundaments of Existence doctrine you are also aware that any manifestation, if not prolonged, is entirely reversible. Rest assured that there is no reason for alarm and Darm will continue to operate with order. Our Guiding Father guarantees that the Torment does not affect us as long as we follow his Directives.'
You did not resist the urge to ask, 'How can he guarantee that?'
Mentor Gordon had anticipated that question. He straightened himself up, becoming statue as solemn as those seen on a fountain. Then he added emphatically, 'If you follow the Directives, you will not be affected by the Torment.'
...deception upon deception...every darmian under his sway...how he fooled them so well...
It is true that Gadim accomplished his vision under the veil of deception. But he only did what he thought best for the salvation of your kind. And to some extent, his device protected the Pyre from the ailment that afflicted all life.
...at the cost of freedom...
'So, the Specialists breached the Directives?' you asked with doubt. You had breached the Directives on a few occasions and had yet to suffer any manifestation.
Mentor Gordon gave you a stern look, 'That is yet to be determined and is not the subject of this announcement, apprentice Balthazar. I say again, rest assured that you are entirely safe and at liberty to proceed with your activities. The plasma barrier encircling the Hub is merely a precautionary measure that might prove to be entirely unnecessary. The Specialists will be found and treated,' he said, and without allowing time for more questions added, 'and now we shall start our Demography indoctrination, we have lost enough time as it is,' he straightened his jacket and continued in a formal tone, 'Who amongst you wishes to begin?'
Standing tall above the dais, he peered at his worried apprentices to find one eager to answer, until his eyes locked with yours. You hastily turned your attention to your neuropad in a futile attempt to demonstrate that you were busily conveying thoughts to it.
He smiled, 'Apprentice Balthazar,' he called out, and in his tone was a subtle satisfaction. 'Do you care to begin?'
Hearing your name stung you painfully. You grimaced and then gave him a solemn stare, 'My apologies, mentor Gordon, but I have not prepared today's indoctrination.'
A thin smile was cast upon the mentor's tall face. 'What a shame. Apparently, your ability to intervene in this doctrine does not stretch beyond inappropriate questions. Fifty credits removed for failing to accomplish the assigned task, and for arriving late.'
The removal of credits was automatically performed and privately notified by Mother. For that reason, his purpose in announcing it aloud was easily made clear to you: to shame you in front of your colleagues for your impertinence. You lowered your head, grieved by the penalty. It was a substantial amount and would damage your standing.
He then ignored you altogether and asked the class once more who wished to begin.
'I can begin, mentor Gordon,' Heidi said timidly, alarmed by the mentor's harshness towards you.
The mentor nodded, flashing a smile.
'Amardan was the name given to a native tribe located in the boreal region of the Western Continent. There are no accurate measures of the prevailing numbers, but it is believed that they have all disappeared. They inhabited the lower canyons of the Cloven Plateaus, which consists of a complex system of plateaus. Orbital scans over the Cloven Plateaus suggest that their primary settlement was located on the margins of the river Fresca.'
'Very well,' the mentor interrupted. 'Anyone care to continue?'
After Samuel and Sophie completed Heidi's presentation, mentor Gordon progressed to addressing the peculiarity of the inhabitants of Amardan. He began by explaining that their physical appearance was markedly different from a pyrean, and had been caused by the Torment and the geographical isolation that subjected them to the relentless frozen winds of the Boreal Glaciers during thousands of years:
'When the temperatures became far too cold to withstand, they were forced to migrate further to the south of the Cloven Plateaus and after establishing a new settlement, their explorations led them to a route through the canyons, down to the northern lands of the Western Continent. They were immediately dreaded by the outlying settlements of pyreans as they soon proved to be wild and ruthless. After a succession of incidents that led to the destruction of many pyrean settlements, the pyreans were successful in driving them back to the Cloven Plateaus during the Starvation Years. They were given the name odyr , a name apparently derived from the native language, which means essentially ''big woolly pyreans''.'
...I have heard of these creatures...but I have never found one...
They were real as they are still, although how they were depicted in this indoctrination was not the most accurate of accounts, to say the least. Kind and compassionate by nature, these creatures had no ill intentions towards the pyreans, yet they soon became unwelcome in their land because of their imposing and menacing appearance. The settlers were quick to judge them as beasts and soon began to provoke and attack them, a reaction that served to the odyrs as a sign that they were to return to the Cloven Plateaus and forever remain there, far from any settlement.
'Odyrs were giant and extremely robust, with a thick bristly mantle which preserved their body temperature. These attributes granted them the ability to endure the extreme weather common to the latitudes they inhabited,' the mentor continued. 'Despite their primitive tendencies, they were cunning and intelligent, and they had often hunted pyreans as a food source before they were cast back into the canyons.'
Interjections of wonder were heard amongst the apprentices. Many covered their mouths; others were struck with surprise and did not react.
'How could they eat pyreans?!' Jack felt the urge to ask without permission, and his tone was smeared with nausea.
Mentor Gordon gave him a sharp glance, and continued, 'Odyrs might have very well been our ancestors, as difficult as it may be to acknowledge. It is believed that they were once antigans but were exposed to the Torment for far too long during the Age of Obscurity. It slowly deformed their appearance and twisted their minds as they turned to savagery. They began to feed on whatever they could find, and when food became scarce, they began to feed on each other,' he said and sighed affectedly. 'It is regrettable, but such was the outcome for most of those who existed in the time before our Guiding Father.'
As the apprentices fell into quiet contemplation, the mentor conveyed to the holoprojector a depiction of their appearance. Most reacted with silent discomfort, shifting in their seats or looking away, and for a moment not even the sound of breathing was heard inside the room. You even thought that Marlene would throw up again as you glanced at her and saw her already pale cheeks become more and more anemic. But she controlled her displeasure, as did the rest of the class. You were one step away from becoming citizens, and apprenticeship had a way of disconnecting a darmian's mind from the world outside. A cold detachment for all things beyond the Great Wall and the Sea of Tranquility had been bred into your hearts and minds, and some were even beginning to see things with the insensible analytical perspective of a Mentalist. Yet, as you looked at their depiction, you could not help but feel awe. They were shaped in the same fashion as pyreans, but their constitution was most different: their long arms ended in huge paws clad with long claws and they were almost twice as big as an average darmian, and their body was entirely covered with a thick mane of gray and white fur. Their face was covered in fur as well, with two menacingly sharp lower teeth sprouting from their dark lips, dark as their round smooth nose, eyelids and ears. Yet for all its ferocious appearance there was something deep in its hazel eyes, a profound kindness, a soft exuding compassion that revealed their bonds of kinship with the Pyre. Tears of wonder lit your eyes as you felt that you were looking at a long-lost ancestor, now found.
'That is one ugly creature!' Jack cried, as was his habit when things impressed him beyond restrain.
This time it was the mentor who allowed himself to giggle in response. 'They are, are they not?' he said in a joyous mood, entirely out of conduct for a mentor. 'Sometimes I wonder in my worst of thoughts, how foul they must smell or sound. It is very relieving to know that we will never have to see one in person.'
You were deeply disturbed by his derision. You dismissed Jack's answer altogether for you knew he did not mean those words, not truly. But the disdain in the mentor's eyes, the snide sound of his voice, forced you to speak, 'Mentor Gordon, I do not think your behavior is acceptable for a citizen of Darm,' you said, and your harsh remark pierced the air with the dominance of a reprimand.
A thick terrible silence smothered the indoctrination room. No image more frightening could have caused more dread in the eyes of mentor Gordon than the words you spoke. His stare was of shock. But yours was filled with resolve as you waited for him to answer to the letter. In fact, you wanted him to. Some unknown feeling stirred inside you when mentor Gordon spoke ill of the odyrs, and it seeped into your thoughts, begging you to allow it to take over. 
...the things that are foulest are buried deep within us...they have neither sound...nor smell...nor shape...
Mentor Gordon's face turned into a blank pale expression. His lips trembled slightly and for a moment he seemed to shrink to the image of a frightened pyrean. 
Suddenly, he skimmed his hands down his jacket, hid them behind his back and stretched himself tall upon the dais. 
'So, it seems you are productive after all, apprentice Balthazar. One can only be grateful to have an apprentice such as you to ensure the validity of one's indoctrination,' he said with a clear sharp voice. 'You are correct, for once. My apologies, class.'
Then he looked at Jack and with solemn formality declared:
'Apprentice Thompson, it is the second occasion during this indoctrination alone that you have disregarded the obligation to request permission to speak. As your colleague so vehemently reminded me, I am forced to notify you, for the first and last time, that if you are to disregard any obligation but once more, you will be disciplined accordingly, as it is commanded by the Directives established by the Council of Mentalists.'
Jack was speechless. He looked at him submissively and nodded. 'I understand, mentor Gordon,' he said despondently.
After the reprimand, the lesson proceeded with an eerie quietness. From time to time the mentor would look out the windowed wall to stare at one or another detachment of sentinels that patrolled the curved walkway between the Academy and the Central Circle, utterly unaware of the prolonged amount of time he spent in doing so, and the indoctrination soon ended, sooner than anyone would expect, but not sooner enough than everyone would like. As your colleagues stood and walked to the exit, you waited for Jack while he silently rolled up his neuropad, his head tilting low, his joyous mood turned into aloofness.
'My apologies, Jack,' you said as he walked towards the exit.
He stopped and looked at you dejectedly.
'Apology not accepted,' he said chipping your shoulder as he exited.
Mentor Gordon calmly followed behind and when he walked past you, he threw you a thin smile.
...cunning beast...

As you sat quietly next to Haji, while you finished your lunch in the great table of the crowded mess hall, Cathy, who had already finished hers, approached you intently, 'Do not worry, Alan. Jack will forget all about it after tonight's Gathering.'
'It was not your fault, Alan,' added Sophie, standing next to her. 'You did well in alerting mentor Gordon of his behavior. I for one found his disregard towards formality very upsetting.'
'Thank you,' you said to them, and a chain of thoughts led you to a curious conclusion. 'On a related topic Jack was the fourth person I had to apologize to today, - you gave Haji a sidelong glance and spoke close to his ear - I'm blazing, as gastians say.'
Haji smiled.
'How do you know what gastians say?' Sophie asked, leering at you with suspicion.
You looked at her with surprise and quickly corrected yourself, 'Would say! I mean as gastians would say, that is if I ever met one in person.'
'And how do you know what they would say?' she insisted.
There was no way of quelling her suspicion without lying, but you could not lie without your Unit notifying Mother of such act, which would result in being summoned by Overseers for interrogation. However, revealing the truth to her and Cathy was as dangerous a compromise as was lying. As you gave them a baffled stare, a subtle solution quickly came to your mind, 'I'm guessing?' you asked rhetorically.
Sophie squinted at you. 'Well, I guess you're not as smart as you think you are if you think you can trick me into thinking that that is what you thought.'
You blinked at her innocently, 'What?!'
'I am watching you, Alan,' she said. 'And if you lead Haji into breaching the Directives with more of your mischief you will have to answer to me. That is what!'
She then turned her back and headed out of the mess hall with Cathy at her side.
'Why am I making everyone upset today?' you asked Haji with a surprised look.
'If I were to speculate, I would say it is due to your disinclination towards obeying the Directives, your continuous acts of defiance towards most mentors, and your propensity for finding trouble where trouble is most unlikely to be, troublemaker.'
'Not you too!' you complained under a sigh.
Haji gave you a sly smile. 'I assumed my thorough analysis would cheer you up,' he said and got up with his empty tray on his hands.
'It most certainly did not!' you said and followed him with your tray on your hands.

Every last day of the week before Rest Day the indoctrinations at the Academy ended after lunch, for the Council considered it was best to grant the apprentices some spare time to allow them to review what had been taught during the week. On that special day, the one thousand finalists were granted the afternoon to begin the Gathering, and as soon as Cathy left the Academy, they followed her towards her suite. You, however, had to complete the tasks Miriam had appointed earlier, before even thinking of entertainment.
'Do not take too long, or you will miss all of the individual presentations,' Sophie said, as you and Haji departed in different directions from the mass of apprentices.
'We will not,' Haji assured.
Aware of how daunting the task appointed to you was, Haji had offered to help you, in order to spare you from arriving late at the Gathering. As you slowly rode your hoverboard towards your residence with him at your side, you removed the strange bracelet from your utility belt and showed it to him. After briefly speculating as to whom the bracelet belonged to, you arrived at your residence and stashed it in a small box you kept in your desk drawer, which you used to hide personal items. It was a fortunate gesture. Had you not hidden it there and you would have never found its owner.
Tenth memory - The Gathering

''Love is that which gives us so many reasons to smile and at the same time too many reasons to cry.''

A passage from a recovered manuscript of the Antiga Pyre: Unknown Author;


Cathy's skyscraper was one of the nearest to the western shore of the Specialist Class Sector. After tidying up your residence, you and Haji headed off in that direction. Haji had suggested taking the Panoramic Highway, concerned that the snowstorm that had been forecasted would hit Darm sooner than anticipated, but what you had to say was best not to be heard by prying ears. So instead, after crossing the South Boulevard, you and Haji made your way down one of the long avenues, surrounded by imposing skyscrapers. Along the avenue, there were ventilation boxes that continuously spewed a warm flow of air into the streets, and hovering lamps that cast small circles of light on the white pavement. Mithras had begun setting on the horizon, slowly relinquishing the heavens to an ominous blanket of grey clouds that approached from the sea.
'It has to belong to the missing Specialists,' you said to Haji through your facemask's speaker.
'It could belong to anyone, Alan,' Haji answered. 'However, given that it is an unusual object, I would speculate that it could very well come from the Project Facility. By the look of it, it seems to be some sort of identification tag.'
'Then there's the symbol of infinity on the clasp,' you said, adding evidence to his reasoning. 'It must have a meaning of some sort.'
Haji replied with some disquiet, 'If the bracelet does belong to the missing Specialists, it is best that you deliver it to the D.S.D.. You were very fortunate that the sentinels did not find it when they scanned you, or you would be in trouble.'
Instead of feeling concerned, you mocked, 'Maybe they were so impressed by my hoverboard that they ended up overlooking it,' you said.
'That is unlikely,' Haji answered, unchanged by your attempt of humoring him. 'The most reasonable explanation is that they categorized it as a personal item.'
'Well, I am not returning it,' you retorted firmly.
'It was merely a prudent suggestion,' Haji replied and smiled, 'I did not think you would.'
Nearing Cathy's skyscraper, you shared a moment of silence.
'Did you know that the antigans had a different designation for the symbol of infinity?' he said out of impulse, for his mind had been giving continuity to the conversation.
'No, I didn't,' you answered inattentively, while you made plans to find out more about the bracelet after the Gathering.
'Well, they did. They named it lemniscate. I found the definition and its origin on an off-topic thread. It was not even in the Fundaments of Modelation segment.'
'How did you come across it?' you asked.
'By chance, when I was preparing a Fundaments of Modelation indoctrination,' Haji said innocently.
A few minutes later, you arrived at the skyscraper's anteroom, just as gentle snowflakes began leisurely descending from the gray sky. After crossing the curved permaglass door, elegantly decorated with imprinted depictions of Specialists in various activities, you removed your facemasks and took off your gloves. For a moment, you felt trapped inside the soundproof anteroom, between the falling snow and the impassable plasma barrier that blocked the access to the entry hall. You approached the touchscreen imbued next to the plasma barrier and waved your forearm near it. ''Access Granted'' flashed in green on the touchscreen and you crossed the harmless barrier for it had adjusted its frequency to match your body's frequency, allowing you and only you to traverse it.
Haji repeated the process, and soon both of you were inside a comfortably acclimatized round hall, tall and wide, and all but empty except for four columns separated at equal lengths from the center. The walls were made of pure gold , which reflected the bright light coming from a portentous crystal chandelier hanging from the golden ceiling. As was custom in all skyscrapers, you placed your boots, your gloves and your facemasks on the two small compartments that opened on the wall to the left and took two pairs of fluffy slippers from inside them.
'Comfy,' you said as you put on the slippers and felt them around your feet.
Haji smiled at you. 'They are. Even if the insulating properties of our exoderm are enough to keep us warm, they add an extra comfort to walking.'
'One more reason to become a Specialist,' you teased.
The compartments closed as you hovered your Units over its touchscreens. 
A few fluffy footsteps later, you were at the end of the lobby, facing the magtubes that would hurtle you to Cathy's suite.
'You go first,' you said with a look of aversion, as you stared inside the floorless tube.
Haji smirked at you, 'Still afraid of falling?' he teased.
'I am not afraid of falling!' you promptly grunted. 'I just don't like stepping into...nothingness.'
'You do know that the probability of falling is close to zero,' Haji explained before he himself stepped inside the tube. 'Even if there was a sudden power shortage the safety nets installed below every level would catch you.'
He had barely placed his two feet inside when he fell into the dark, wiggling his raised arms and yelling helplessly.
Blood drained from your cheeks and your eyes widened in panic. You were just about to jump in to try and rescue him when he slowly floated up, smiling at your terrified face, and then flew upwards.
'Ohhh...I will get you...' you said through clenched teeth before finally stepping in.

When you reached the right level, you jumped out of the magtube and found yourself next to Haji in a long narrow lobby veiled in darkness. Its dim lighting came from hidden lamps in the sides of the floor, whose soft beams climbed the golden walls and lit the ceiling. As you peered inside, you noticed the slender shape of two pyreas in strange clothing, chattering at the other end of the hall. You quickly concluded that they were finalists coated in animal attire.
One of them approached you. 
'You're here!' she said in a joyous voice.
You immediately recognized the voice, but Haji spoke first. 'Salutations, Cathy,' he said and bowed. 'I would never have recognized you with that animal attire.'
Cathy gave him a wide smile and slowly spun around herself. Her body was coated in short white fur, firmly adhered to her slender curves in such fashion that enhanced her sensuality. She had furry white tufts on her hands and feet and one on her lower back, and a pair of tall, folded ears springing from her curly red hair. Her gorgeous face was covered in white make-up, her lips glossy red, her nose black, and pairs of long whiskers sprang from her cheeks.
As you admired her from head to feet, you wanted to say how impressive she looked, but somehow, you had been rendered mute. She looked unusual yet striking, intensely compelling, irresistibly compelling. Without apparent reason, you felt an intense itching in your whole body, and you could not resist scratching yourself.
'Alan?' she asked, surprised by your odd gestures.
Haji elbowed you. 'Stop that,' he spoke with a sidelong glance.
'I can't. Sometimes I get a strong itchy feeling when I get out of a magtube,' you explained.
'It is a rare side-effect caused by the magnetic field that traverses through the Nervous System,' he said, looking at you sternly. 'It happens when the nervous system suffers a critical breakdown. You probably will turn into a puddle of organic matter soon.'
When your Unit did not signal that he was lying, you widened your eyes in terror.
'Of course, the probability of that happening is even lower than suffering injury by falling down a magtube,' he added with a sly smile.
You glared at him. 'I am so going to get you.'
Haji chuckled and then looked at Cathy. 'Are you not going to introduce us to your friend?' he said.
Cathy's friend had been silently watching the conversation, amusement filling her furry face.
'You don't recognize her?' Cathy asked.
Her attire looked even more exotic. Her body was coated in short amber fur sprinkled with round black dots; at the end of her smooth curvy back a long tail extended down her slender legs. Jutting from her auburn hair were two small round ears and the make-up on her face drew two dark strips that fell from her eyes down to her soft chin, granting her an appearance both stunning and wild. She drew out a long white smile that contrasted with her black nose and her amber glossed lips.
'I told you he would not recognize me,' she said with a soft subtle voice.
Haji gave her a stunned gaze. 'Sophie?'
Sophie giggled and nodded her feline head. Her green eyes shone at him with glamour.
For the first time, Haji was completely speechless. An undeniable realization awoke in him at that moment, and he knew beyond doubt that she was the girl he was going spend the rest of his existence with. 'I am at a loss for words to describe how remarkable you look, Sophie,' he said with some effort.
Sophie's bright brown eyes overflowed with happiness. 'If it were not for the make-up, you would see that I was blushing,' she said.
You felt the need to make amends for your stagnant staring and intervened with a somewhat similar comment. 'You don't look that bad either, Cathy,' you told her in a confident manner.
Cathy's joyous smile turned into an incredulous stare.
'Is that all you can say, Alan?' Sophie asked with amicable derision.
You shrunk under Cathy's increasing glower and began stuttering incomprehensibly, all the while thinking that it had been best if you had kept on smiling and scratching yourself, quietly.
'Do not feel disappointed Cathy,' said Haji. 'When Alan is impressed by something, he sometimes has bursts of inappropriate comments.'
'He's bursting, alright,' she said, her arms crossed and sneering at you. 'With silliness.'
You stopped scratching yourself. 'I am so, so, so gonna get you,' you whispered close to Haji ear. Then you looked at Cathy and spoke courteously, 'My apologies, Cathy. I meant to say you look as remarkable as Sophie, if not more.'
Cathy forced a smile. 'That sounds better,' then she pointed to a sliding door to the right. 'Now that Sophie and I have been properly complimented, head to the printing device and put on your animal attires. Other people are arriving.'
She had just finished speaking when the magtube announced the arrival of two more guests with a soft tune.
After bowing you both followed through the door, entering a wide and well lit room, the suite's coatroom, and found the device at the center standing on a round base with two steps. It was a tall transparent cylinder, much like an incubation tank. The touchpanel was above a small station next to the door and was waiting for input.
'An actual printing device,' you said as you slid your hand across the device's transparent door. 'I wonder how many credits it cost.'
'Being under the care of Specialists has its advantages,' Haji stated without any ill intention.
You and Haji removed your uniforms, leaving nothing but the dark-gray exoderm on your skin, and placed them on an opened wardrobe imbued in the wall, with green jackets and pants hanging on hooks. Once the hooks felt your uniforms, they receded inside the wardrobe before it closed, leaving a flat wall in its place.
'You can go first,' Haji said.
'No, no. You first,' you answered as you rushed ahead and took the place in front of the station.
Haji smiled and hopped in, closing the door behind. 
Looking at the touchscreen, you dragged your fingers through the attire menu and when you found Haji's Linx pardinus you nodded at him. The thought of getting even with him by tampering with the printing device crossed your mind, but after carefully checking the device's status you started the coating process without changing its specifications, thinking no amount of retribution would justify ruining your best friend's Gathering. 
Haji closed his eyes and stood still, as the chamber was filled with water vapor; then, a metallic ring filled with countless miniscule nozzles descended from its ceiling which began to spray his body with layers and layers of a silicon-based gel in an up and down cycle. You watched his transformation, as he was slowly coated in layers that thickened with each passing of the ring. His face was equally changing, becoming masked by layers of silicon apart from his eyes and lips, which had been previously covered by a protective film.
When the process was complete, the ring bathed him in a hardening layer that solidified the silicone gel to the point of becoming rugged and furry, before a spray of multi-colored ink tinged him until he became like a furry brown animal splattered with black patches. It took a little more than five minutes before the last step started. The ring withdrew into the ceiling and a gust of air coming from fans in the floor blew away any residual substances and dried the ink in place. A sharp ding! announced that the process was complete, and the door was opened. 
When Haji stepped out of the chamber, he looked similar in every way to the Lynx pardinus image displayed on the touchscreen, apart from his graceless walk. Had you not seen the process happen before your eyes and you would have never recognized your best friend if he were to walk up to you unannounced.
'You look just like it!' you said.
Haji looked at himself in the mirrored wall, turning from one side to the other, seeing his long brown tail with a dark tuft at the end. He picked it up with his right paw and felt its fluffy fur; then he patted the ruffs of fur falling from the sides of his chin and smiled.
'Remarkable,' he said as he gazed at his feline face, his dark nose, and tufted ears.
'My turn!' you said and eagerly entered the device.
When Haji selected Ailuropoda melanoleuca and pressed the initiate command, a flashing red light lit inside the chamber. You gently closed your eyes before you were engulfed by a warm and odorless water vapor. As you stood very still, the makeover cycle began anew and worked the same way it did with Haji, only this time it took longer to finish, much longer. The build of your animal was large and bulky, and many more layers of silicon had to be added to complete it. Your legs and arms swelled and swelled to three times their thickness and your chest and head became chubbier. When the hardening and coloring layer was applied and the blowing air subsided, the door opened, and you emerged from inside the cylinder. You were so large that you were barely able to cross the narrow opening with your black and white pelt.
Haji was widening a merry smile. 'You have put on some mass,' he said.
'I can feel it,' you answered and gave him a chubby smile back.
You examined yourself in the mirror. Your chest and head were coated in white fur while your arms and legs were coated in black. A pair of dark tufted ears that seemed more like fluffy lumps had sprung from atop your forehead and your eyes were encircled in black rings of fur. You were just like as you had imagined, and you felt it a well-deserved reward for putting so much effort into creating the procedures for the attires.
'We are ready,' you told Haji and gave him a feral grin.
'Without question,' he said and grinned back.

When you entered the suite's common room, you were immediately awed by the decoration and the countless number of apprentices coated with animal attires. Before you, was a tall vast hall with four supporting columns as large as the ones from the lobby, but these were covered by display curtains, the same type used in the Retreat's booths. These took on the guise of brown tree bark, whereas the curtains on the ceiling and the floor were correspondingly dark green and grassy green, which gave the columns the appearance of trunks of trees and the ceiling and floor of leaves and grass. On the four corners of the vast hall were large tables filled with appetizers and hundreds of apprentices were snacking around them, wearing the most unusual animal attires. Others were enjoying the marvelous sight beyond the round window-wall that comprised the entire outer wall of the hall. Beyond it, the air outside was already thick with snow.
 'This is quite impressive,' Haji said.
You heard him, but your mind was turned to your surroundings, ands as you wandered inside the hall, eyes widened, you felt a hazy sensation of familiarity with the forest projected onto the display curtains, with the animal attires walking about, with the soft verdant fragrance being conveyed into your Unit by scent-inducing brainwaves. The boundaries of reality blurred and mingled with the faint reminiscence of something you had long dreamt. Every detail seemed to represent the scent and look of things long gone, things that were claimed by fate and vanished, never to return.
...I see trees as tall as towers...I breathe the soft smell of flowers...I sink into the green and blue...and I am reborn anew...
Words that shall forever be remembered. For, you see, there is a bond between all life that cannot be severed by indoctrinations or split apart by great walls. Even if neither of you had ever seen a tree nor felt the fragrance of nature, you shared a connection to them, and it felt to you, that the decoration was as real as life.
'Alan?' Haji called you.
You looked at him absentmindedly. 'What?'
'I said, Cathy put the suite to good use,' he repeated.
'She did...indeed,' you said, even though you still did not pay attention.
Walking towards a great round table at the center, an apprentice attired with an imposing animal prowled towards you and Haji and blocked your way, raising his arms up high and arching his fingertips as if they were retractable claws. He was enveloped in a long mantle of golden fur and had a huge thick mane on his head with two pointy ears perching from it at the top. His face was painted in shades of brown and yellow and his big nose and lips were splattered in white and brown hues. A charming odor emanated from him, too out of place for his attire, but appropriate enough for an apprentice that enjoyed scented cleansing gel, which could be ordered at the Support Center and whose scent could be customized. 
He widened his jaws and roared menacingly.
'Salutations, Jack,' Haji greeted him and bowed.
His brown and yellow cheeks shrunk with disappointment, and he threw down his arms. 'What gave me away?' he asked.
'Other than already knowing the animal you chose?' Haji said. 'The distinctive fragrance of your cleansing gel.'
'I knew I shouldn't have showered,' he said, jolting his head and slapping one leg. 'Nevertheless, beware or I will ravage you with my smile,' he said, raising his arms again and pointing his claws at him.
'I wouldn't do that,' Haji said and grinned. 'You might intimidate your potential companion.'
He fell into a casual relaxed posture. 'I am only rehearsing for my presentation,' he said. Then he took a moment to examine Haji's attire. 'I have to admit. You look good. I never thought you would look exactly like the image on the touchscreen.'
'And that is how you recognized me,' Haji concluded.
Jack shook his huge mane from side to side, flaunting it as he combed it with both his paws. 'Well, flattering as it may be, you still do not look as good as I,' he said and unleashed his big smile.
Impressively enough, it seemed to you almost as huge as the mane itself.
'I was right,' you said to Haji. 'Not even the mane can compete with his smile.'
Your comment caught his attention, and he gave you a harsh stare. He still had not forgotten what had happened during mentor Gordon's indoctrination.
'And what happened to you? Did you somehow exceed the daily dosage of nutrients for the entire year in one day?'
'I wouldn't dare to compete with you,' you said and smiled.
'Good for you, because no one can compete with me!' he stated, striking Haji with another smile.
You still felt guilty for what had happened to him, so you thought it was best to be nice and let him have his proud moment.
'You seem to have prepared well for the Gathering,' Haji stated after studying his behavior. 'Have you chosen your companion already?'
Jack's smile was shattered into a toothy grimace. He let out a frustrated sigh and answered, 'I have. But I still haven't asked her. I hope I do until the end of the evening. Imagine ending up with Leonard,' he glanced sideways and pointed with one thumb to a bulky Elephas Maximus leaning alone on a wall. 'How fun would that be?'
'Does it even matter?' you said serenely. 'Companions are merely intended to share the same residence and look after the descendants appointed to them.'
Jack lifted his chin high as and spoke proudly, 'It matters to me. I shall have a female companion, and together we shall present Darm with the most attractive descendant ever: Jack Thompson Junior.'
You chuckled amusedly.
Haji gave him a sly smile and stated, 'Your expectations might deceive you. You're basing yourself on the assumption that a girl would want to be your companion.'
With his head, Jack nudged towards a round group of feral pyreas. Some were ogling at him discretely and sharing inaudible comments and giggles. 'I am making no assumptions,' he answered, flashing an overconfident smile. He then pointed to the great round table, 'Now, come taste the appetizers my caretaker designed.'
At that moment, a Pan troglodyte and a Macropus giganteus entered the hall coming from the coatroom, and as you examined their attires you knew them to be Samuel and Markus, two fellow apprentices from your class. Sophie and Cathy were following behind. Cathy stopped to talk to some finalists while Sophie winked at Haji and called him with one index finger.
'If you excuse me, I will go talk to my future companion,' Haji bowed and went to meet with her near the permaglass wall.
'Wait, what? Don't go!' Jack said, signaling him back, but Haji was already on his way. 
'Well, that leaves you,' he said to you in a displeased manner.
'Lead the way,' you answered, smiling through your black and white fur.

As you reached the large table, you noticed the hundreds of apprentices around it, chewing with delight. You stopped before it to look at a seemingly endless assortment of the most unusual geometrical appetizers, each piling up on different trays. There were wobbling gelatinous solids, big and small, each with different shapes and colors, ranging from yellow hexagonal pyramids to orange pentagonal prisms, to brownish irregular heptahedrons and multicolored octahedrons the size of a clenched fist. But the most massive spectacle was standing at the center of the table: an exact replica of Cathy made of hardened gelatin, from small toes to curly red hair. One of her hands was lifted in a greeting gesture while the other seemed to have been chopped off.
'Cathy ate it!' Jack promptly explained when he saw you looking at the mutilated arm.
'Apart from that, it looks really impressive,' you answered kindly. 'It looks like an edible version of her.'
'I made it myself. I had a hard time not to eat it,' he whispered to himself, however too loud.
When your looked at his melancholic gaze, you sensed in him a mixture of conflicting feelings as assorted as the appetizers themselves. Grief blended with joy, passion merged with uncertainty, until an overwhelming dread poured from his lips, 'Do not say a word to Cathy!'
You smiled. 'You have my word,' you said and pressed your lips.
'About what happened today at the indoctrination,' he said embarrassedly. 'I accept your apology. But we're not even. Do not think that I will forget it was you that---!'
Just as he spoke, an extremely elegant female apprentice coated with the most unusual animal approached the table and stopped next to you. Jack's attention was immediately drawn to her curvy shape and stopped mid-sentence, his dumbstruck mouth open, when she leaned over the table to examine the appetizers. Her body was entirely coated in iridescent scales, which refracted the dim light coming from the chandeliers hanging above, and when she stretched her arm to pick up a cup from the table, the scales shifted from red to green to blue in a dazzling spectacle of colors. She realized Jack was staring at her, and when she turned her eyes to him, Jack immediately pointed to a tray and spoke to you in a hasty, yet unusually eloquent manner:
'And here you have my caretaker's famous nutrient hips---I mean strips!---made with a vitamin complex and glucose, and infused with a unique flavoring, which only he knows the chemical composition of!'
You picked up a strip and tried it, happy that he had already forgotten about the incident. At first you chewed it with care, but when you felt the sweet and sour flavoring, you chewed it with pleasure. 
'Tasty!' you remarked with delight.
Jack was not even listening. He was still stealing sidelong glances at the girl as she leaned over. He was trying not to seem obvious while desperately attempting to recognize her, but under all the scales it was impossible for him to figure out who she was.
You looked at him as you chewed.
'Would we be even if I told you who she is?' you asked.
'You know who she is?!' he whispered with eagerness close to your ear.
You nodded at him with indifference, 'It's Marlene.'
Jack's eyes widened in disbelieve. 'Marlene?! Pale Marlene?' he whispered, raising one eyebrow and staring at her. 'She looks so...colorful. Are you sure?'
You chuckled. 'She does. I suppose that's why she chose that attire.'
Marlene was becoming clearly uncomfortable with Jack's barefaced stare. For a moment, it seemed that her face was becoming pale, just before she turned and left, her scales glistening as she walked over the grassy floor.
Staring at her as she left, Jack said, 'Well pink suits her very well, as does red. And blue. And look at that purple waist,' unable to resist anymore, he added. 'I think I will go talk to her.'
You could not hold your laughter, imagining the result of his attempt to impress her. 'You do that. Just don't ravage her with your smile.'
'Of course not!' he answered with such a wicked and wide grin that even with the scarce light his teeth shone as bright as Mithras. 
He prowled over to her, preening his huge brown mane.
'Someday that smile will get him in trouble,' you heard Cathy's voice behind you.
'Definitely,' you answered.
Then both of you turned to see Jack, flashing a smile towards Marlene, while she smiled back shyly.
'But this is the occasion it suits him best,' you added.

The Gathering lingered on into the evening to the discrete sound of chattering and giggling. Darmians did not know how to enjoy themselves, and to them the idea of fun was as close to their mind as Mithras was to Artica. There were no raised voices or boisterous behaviors, for everyone followed the Directives for proper conduct, maintaining their poise and constraining their discussions to the latest indoctrinations and one or another update on the cure that Mother had recently made available to inquiry, always under the patient scrutiny of the twenty Acolytes standing like statues around the permaglass wall and looking inwards.
Once all the finalists had sated their thirst and hunger, Cathy, the appointed hostess of the Gathering, gave continuity to the main event of the evening, the individual presentations, which had begun soon after Lunch Hour and were paused during Dinner Time. To that purpose, the one thousand finalists sat on small puffs, filling the wide hall with a large audience that turned to the vast darkness on the other side of the permaglass wall. Between them and the transparent wall, the floor itself rose to the height of a stage large enough to bear the length of the largest animal coating, which was not yours by chance, but Leonard's bulky Elephas maximus. You sat in the row before the stage, between Cathy and Haji, which sat next to Jack and Sophie correspondingly. It was with great joy that you watched each apprentice present their animals, and as the evening progressed, so too would you and your friends present theirs.
Cathy climbed to the stage, turned to face the countless staring eyes and recited with her happy, sweet voice, 'Despite belonging to the domain of terrestrial animals, the Lepus arcticus inhabited cold snowy regions much like the ones we have today in the boreal areas of Artica. They were herbivorous and likely fed on sparse vegetation growing in these regions. They used facial pockets to store food that they gathered while they hopped back to their burrows under the snow. The most probable cause of extinction was the lowering of their habitat's temperatures to levels far below sustainable conditions to the vegetation on which they fed. They were small and cute and very friendly, and that is why I chose them,' she said and bowed.
She stepped down the stage, receiving the second loudest ovation of the evening, in part due to being the hostess, but also for the pleasing way her short white fur contrasted with her red curly hair and glossy red lips.
'Red looks good on you,' Jack commented discretely after she sat next to him.
Cathy glanced at Marlene, who was two rows behind them, chatting with Heidi in her Petauristini and Julia - a mutual friend from another class - in a Sciurus carolinensis. 
'It looks good on Marlene too,' she retorted, giving him a cold smile.
Jack was hesitant at first, but then added with confidence, 'Good as she may look, it is the attire that makes her beautiful, while you are beautiful for yourself.'
Cathy was surprised by his courteous compliment. It was so unlike him to compliment her in such a way, that, at first, she did not know what to say and merely stared at him in surprise. Jack opened his mouth as if to continue, but she interrupted him, 'You have my gratitude, Jacky,' she said in a caring voice, 'I earnestly hope you find the right companion today.'
When Cathy looked away, Jack bit his lower lip and turned his frustrated face to Sophie as she climbed to the podium and began her presentation:
'The animal known as Acinonyx jubatus was one of the terrestrial animals that are believed to have inhabited the region of what is today known as the Barren Tundra. It is believed that this tundra was once rich with a large variety of vegetation and great animal herds, giving rise to extensive prairies which were a common sight during the Age of the Antiga Pyre. Examination of sub-fossils suggests that the Acinonyx jubatus hunted other animals for food and relied on sheer speed and not physical strength to overcome their prey. Researchers are yet to find any other animal with such graceful and sleek bone structure, which lead them to believe that they were the fastest animals to have ever coexisted with the antigans. The prime factor to their extinction is attributed to the Open Hunting during the Age of Obscurity, a time when our ancestors carelessly hunted every animal for food and pelts. I chose it because it was a graceful and proud animal,' she let out a saddened smile and bowed before stepping down from the podium.
Haji remembered the moment when Sophie said, ''It will be a surprise''. In truth, it had been such a pleasant surprise to see that they had had a similar taste in choosing their animal, that he reasoned they would have a productive existence together. After congratulating her and whispering into her ear that her presentation was outstanding, he rose to the podium and began in a clear assured voice, his eyes fixed on her smiling stare:
'The Lynx pardinus bore a close resemblance to the previously presented animal, the only significant difference being that they were smaller in scale. Their remains were found on an isolated peninsula Southeast of the East Continent which was known as Iberia. Detailed analysis to sub-fossils stored in the Historic Records, reveal specific traits such as heightened night vision and improved hearing, which led Specialists to believe they were mostly a nocturnal species that fed on other animals. It is not known for certain the primary reason for their extinction but studies of remains of ingested animals led us to believe that an epidemic spread through their habitat, and as a result the Lynx Pardinus inevitably succumbed, leaving behind only traces of their existence. I too chose them because they were graceful and proud,' he said and bowed and climbed down from the stage.
When Haji sat next to Sophie, she spoke to him in a mellifluous voice, 'You were even more outstanding, my favorite darmian.'
The moment for the most highly acclaimed animal of the evening to climb on the podium soon followed. Jack rose above the furry audience and landed on the podium with one swift jump. His long, tufted tail whooshed through the air as he spun round to face the crowd, and his golden mane came swooping down with a courteous low bow. Right from the start his entrance had upstaged all other presentations, and he received an eager applause from the audience. Marlene, Heidi and her other rodent friend chirred flirtatiously. Jack winked at them, and raised his arms, casting his fingers as retractable claws towards them and roared. The cheering rose even louder, and the applause resounded though the hall. Jack waved off the applause and when the noise slowly subsided to an absolute silence, he began his presentation with an overly expressive quirkiness which only he was capable of:
'The Panthera Leo was the fiercest animal to have ever existed upon the lands of the Antiga Pyre and without doubt resided on the top of the animal food chain. In fact, he was so menacing, so menacing, that his deafening roar would compel any other animal to bow before him in terrified reverence,' he combed his mane with a quick gesture, raising his head to the ceiling in a display of supremacy; two female animals from the second row giggled to each other which inflated his ego to an even higher level. 'For countless years he ruled as the king of animals, an unmatched predator save for inferior animals who took advantage of his distraction to pilfer his half-eaten preys. Yet despite being terrifying, he was also honorable and loyal. In fact, he was so loyal, so loyal, that his role in the pack was to ensure the protection of the females and his descendants by overseeing his vast territory. He would mark it with pheromones to prevent any rival from claiming his companions, and trust me when I say, that territorial disputes between these animals, these magnificent and terrifying animals, were the most spectacular displays of ferocity ever seen in Artica!' he then continued, changing his registry to a more flirtatious tone. 'And they were a gallant animal as well, so gallant, that the role of the females was to ensure they were sated with food and pleasure, and when---'
'How did they choose their companions?' Julia, who was sitting next to Marlene asked loudly.
Jack grinned at her and answered impatiently, 'I was just getting to that,' he combed his mane and continued. 'As I was saying, he was so gallant, so gallant, that when he courted a female, they would have no other desire but to surrender to his biddings and forever become his loyal companion. In fact, it was because he was so gallant, so gallant, that the Panthera leo succeeded in conquering many females, which he then made sure to protect fervently.'
Interrupting his performance abruptly, he spoke out of character and was back to being the casual Jack. 
'In fact, if you think about it, it is makes complete sense, and I believe this behavior should be cultivated in Darm. I mean, we should be allowed to have as many companions as we desire,' he said, and when he realized all the female apprentices were staring at him with incredulity, he quickly tried to explain. 'I mean there are so many of you! Why spend our entire existence with just one when we could have so many?' he asked impulsively, and then started feeling embarrassed, terribly embarrassed, and hastily drew an innocent smile which even between his brown and white makeup had all the appearance of being characteristically Jackyish.
The statement had divided reactions among the audience: the male animals laughed while the females frowned. Marlene, Heidi and Julia giggled together; Cathy and Sophie shook their heads in disbelief, while you and Haji laughed behind your hands. Despite the indignation, many found it to be a reasonable dilemma, and that same thought had crossed you and everyone else's mind, even if it had never been so openly admitted, or suggested.
'He is right!' spoke a young male voice amongst the crowd. 'We should be able to have as many companions as we want!'
'The only thing you will have is an empty residence!' added one annoyed female voice.
Many girls nodded and agreed, and a sudden debate broke out as male and female finalists turned on each other to defend their points of view.
Feeling guilty for having started the discussion, Jack raised his voice and spoke solemnly, drawing back the attention of everyone:
'They were fierce animals, capable of instilling the most profound admiration in any of us, but like all other animals they were lost forever during the Age of Obscurity. There is evidence that suggest that some managed to survive for some centuries after the collapse of antigan civilization, but with the Open Hunt they were hunted to extinction. They are gone, now, forever.'
Nothing could have silenced that hall any better than those words. The crowd had stopped arguing to stare at him in silence. He stood quietly atop the podium and did not look so proud now. Sorrow was filling his eyes and his mane had lost all splendor. Discussions about ideal companions now seemed petty to them, and any outcome they could possibly face during their existence was belittled in comparison to what had happened to all the animals that existed before their time. You felt saddened to learn of their undeserved fate. There had been an unimaginable variety of life on Artica, innumerable and magnificent animals that had prospered for ages far before the rise of the Pyre, sharing in balance the same land and sea and air. They had endured all the hardships forced upon them and still managed to thrive and bring endless beauty to the world. But, in the end, they were powerless to outlive the destruction brought down upon them by a single animal, a single creature which in its struggle for survival had carelessly neglected all life. The finalists looked at each other with newfound respect for the animals that each represented, and as they stared into each other's furry faces, a single realization came to their minds. What an irreversible loss the world has suffered with their passing.
...they are honored in death when they should have been cared for in life...
The silence was slowly lifted into an intense crescendo of applauses and effusive cheering that ended in a choir screaming, ''Jacky! Jacky! Jacky!''. Jack raised his claws proudly and unleashed his wide smile, bowing countless times before stepping down from the stage. As he sat down on his puff, you spoke to him, 'Congratulations Jacky. I am sure that that was the best presentation Darm has ever seen. How did you know so much about the Panthera leo?'
Jack leaned over Cathy's legs and answered, 'I studied. You shouldn't underestimate my desire to impress,' he said and grinned.
Jack's presentation had thrown the finalists into a rowdy state, and their loud cheering was as big of an affront to the Order imposed in Darm as they could possibly conceive. And as if that Order remained ever vigilant, the Acolytes surrounded the multitude of colorful and furry apprentices and commanded them quite severely to remain calm and silent, placing them under penalty of bringing the Gathering to an early ending if they failed to comply. When the finalists calmed down and returned to a dull soberness, the Acolytes returned to their places and stood with their backs against the walls, facing the crowd, ever watching and listening.
'Alan, it is your turn,' Cathy whispered.
You sighed in dismay.
'Do I really have to? I'm not so good at speaking to an audience.'
'Come on, troublemaker,' Haji whispered from your right side. 'It is what you do best.'
You got up reluctantly and stepped onto the podium, one bulky black leg after the other. At first you were a little intimidated, especially by the blank unflinching stare the Acolytes gave you. Then, as you looked at the nearly one thousand finalists staring back at you, a queasy sensation threw you off balance. Your puffy head wobbled, your limbs felt heavy, and you had trouble just to keep your balance on the metallic podium. To make matters worse, you realized that watching you at that very moment was the apprentice that would be your companion for the rest of your existence. You knew you had to do your best to impress her and even if you did not feel well standing there, you fervently renounced the thought of climbing down without first presenting your animal.
...belief empowers...
You gathered your courage, cast aside all negative thoughts, and focused solely on what you had learned from the Historic Records:
'The Ailuropoda melanoleuca,' you began in an insecure yet audible voice, 'was the term designated to a peculiar kind of animal that was found in a specific region of the Central Continent. Despite possessing a digestive system adapted to a carnivorous diet, no remains were found inside their digestive tract other than a specific vegetable, which led Specialists to believe they were uniquely adapted to a region where they inhabited for millions of years,' you finished the paragraph with a deep relaxing breath. 'Study of their neo-cortex suggests that they were harmless and solitary, however somewhat territorial, and it is believed that due to these traits, they were respected and admired by our ancestors. Evidence from recovered sub-fossils is not conclusive as to the cause of their extinction. Sedimentary analysis reveals that they survived the Open Hunt. However, it is likely that their numbers dwindled due to starvation, as their source for food disappeared during the lowering of the global temperature,' you finished and bowed hastily, your puffy paws hanging at your sides.
'Why did you pick it?' Cathy asked abruptly, trying to rouse your somber speech.
You wobbled on the stage and glanced outside the window-wall, trying to find the answer written on the dispersed flakes of falling snow. An almost irresistible desire to flee made you wonder how resilient the permaglass window was and if it would break if you threw yourself at it, and you went as far as to speculate whether it would shatter or leave behind the silhouette of your fleeing body if you did. You chuckled to yourself, amused by that thought, skimmed your chest with both paws and answered plainly, 'I chose it because it was a peaceful and friendly animal, but at the same time great and strong.'
'Well, it suits you very well,' Cathy added and smiled.
A group of female apprentices giggled behind her. Cathy looked back and giggled with them, and as you climbed down from the stage you heard some finalists amongst the crowd murmuring ''Cathy and Alan.''
You sat once more next to Cathy, who smiled at you with a soft yet intense gentleness.
'You did well, troublemaker,' Haji said, sitting at your right.
The rest of the individual presentations proceeded to the solemn formality of each finalist's speech. From time to time, one or another apprentice would stand up from the audience to grab some geometric appetizers from the trays, which were becoming disturbingly empty as the last apprentices presented their animals. The final twenty were from class #50 and amongst them, there was one Troglodites gorilla coated in black fur, with black hairless face and hands, followed by an Equus zebra, whose black and white stripes befuddled many spectators, one female Panthera onca with a dazzling black pelt and deep dark eyes, and lastly, a Canis lupus with a grey fur, keen eyes, sharp ears and even sharper voice.
When everyone had presented their animals, Cathy stepped onto the stage: 
'Now that we have concluded our individual presentations, we will move to the most important part of the evening: selecting a companion. I do not think I need to explain to any of you what to do, - many apprentices smiled eagerly - so you may stand up and find yourselves someone to share your residence with!'
At the sound of those words, the one thousand apprentices stood up hastily and started to form groups and groups of mixed genders. The stage was lowered back to floor level and the portion of the hall adjacent to the permaglass wall slid outwards, forming a gigantic circle shaped balcony amidst the middle floors of the tall, round skyscraper. Many groups decided to stay behind the plasma field that was raised to insulate the balcony from the rest of the hall, while others decided to step outside and chat, under the cover of a roof that had extended outwards. 
As the hours passed, the evening turned into a cold quiet night. Those who the Gathering had served its purpose started to leave, and pair by pair, Cathy's suite became less and less crowded. The groups that remained slowly became scattered about the hall, standing around tables and having conversations on the balcony, while dismay was starting to show on the faces of those alone, leaning on walls or lolling restlessly on puffs. Their dismay was justifiable, for if they could not find a suitable companion, Mother would randomly select one from the remaining finalists in that same hall.
Although you were aware of that, you made no attempt to find a companion throughout the rest of the evening. You thought about talking to Cathy. You had been good friends with her for many years, and you knew that she was the most appropriate companion for you, but seeing that it was such an important decision, you were still unsure whether to propose to her or not. So, instead of looking for her, you remained on the balcony with Haji, leaning on the long metallic railing and gazing down at the endless darkness of the Sea of Tranquility. Straight down, you could see the Coastal Walkway, its pavement lit in little white circles of light that illuminated the scattered benches and ventilation boxes. 
Haji would pause between the conversation to exhale blasts of warm breath into the freezing air and watch it crystallize into snowflakes that would then scatter into the air. It was a habit he had acquired from you. Every time he did, he found it intriguing that the crystallization process would occur so fast and merely from the water vapor exhaled from his lungs. He had precise knowledge of the process required for snowflakes to form, and in no way were the conditions required ever met. To that day he could not find a reasonable explanation for it, but he found that envisioning a likely explanation, that he then could put to test, was as an entertaining exercise for his brain as was watching them form and scatter.
'It has a sense of irony to it,' he spoke, concluding an unspoken line of thought.
'What does?' you asked absentmindedly, watching the eidetic memory of Cathy's presentation, which you had stored in your Unit and now conveyed into your mind.
With eyes cast upon the scattering snow, Haji explained in a fascinated voice, 'Water is the fundamental molecule of existence. We are mostly composed of it, and without it, Artica would have been unsuitable for any known organism to inhabit it, including us. Still, if we were to drink copious amounts of it in a short time interval, it would poison us and we would cease to exist.'
The image of Cathy's glossy red smile disintegrated from your field of view.
'It is ironic,' he repeated, 'we cannot exist without it, but if we have too much of it, it becomes a poisonous substance.'
'Everything has a limit,' you concluded.
'Precisely,' Haji agreed. 'It seems we have been designed to operate under specific conditions, and if any of these conditions are not met, either by us failing to meet them or due to some circumstance beyond our control, our continuity is no longer possible.'
You sighed as you watched an invulnerable group of sentinels far below on the Coastal Walkway, marching against the freezing wind. 'Our existence is frail,' you murmured.
Haji's eyes brightened as he stared at you, for your short remark was the sum of all his contemplation, 'Precisely! And that leads me to speculate that our existence depends on a chain of fortuitous events that occurred throughout billions of years. It is not just water that is poisonous, the oxygen we breathe can poison us as well. Ultimately, anything can be poisonous. The temperature of our surrounding, the concentration of gases in the atmosphere, the nutrients we consume, the radiation coming from Mithras, these and many more factors are needed to assure our existence and these and many other factors can just as easily terminate it,' he said, and as looked up to the darkened sky, he tried to envision the stars beyond the clouds, beyond the silvery lunoids of Oderon's Rings, beyond the endlessness of space; he lost himself wondering whether those conditions had been met on other planets.
You added humorously, 'Did you know that a gastian ceased to exist because he could not stop laughing? In a way, that proves your point. Even too much laughter can, in some way, be poisonous,' you said. Then, you added with sarcasm, 'I assume that's why games are forbidden in Darm.'
Haji gave you a stern look. 'That is obviously not the reason. Games, like any other form of entertainment, are not allowed in Darm because they are disruptive to the state of mind necessary to uphold darmian productivity. Any rewarding activity releases endorphins into our nervous system. These grant us with a sense of accomplishment. However, the rewards produced from entertaining activities lead to an inadequate sense of accomplishment, which lowers motivation and leads to idleness. Idleness lowers productivity. Low productivity leads to disorder; hence, entertainment leads to disorder. And that is directly against our Prime Directive.'
'You sound just like a Mentalist,' you said with discomfort.
Haji could not help but laugh. 'I appreciate your comparison. Mentalists are the most intelligent pyreans of our time. They are supposedly far more intelligent than our ancestors, which were intelligent, despite what happened to them.'
You looked away and muttered, 'Smart as they may be, I still don't agree with their rules. We should be allowed to have some fun now and then.'
'Fun is against the Prime Directive,' Haji answered and quieted himself, contemplating.
You looked down at your puffy black paw, then at Haji's long whiskers, and said with disquiet, 'If our ancestors were as intelligent as evidence suggests, why did they allow these animals to become extinct? I am sure they could have found a way to survive without having to hunt them for food.'
'Perhaps they took their existence for granted and never cared to think that they were condemning them to extinction. Or, perhaps, the Torment was too much for them to withstand, and in the long-lasting years of the Age of Obscurity, they descended into savagery and ignorance, as mentor Levine stated.'
Your eyes became as gloomy as the black dots of fur around them. 'It is regrettable. They were truly special,' you said in a melancholic voice.
'They were indeed,' Haji answered.
Sophie slid to Haji's side like a swift and silent feline and threw herself into his furry arms as he opened them out of reflex to embrace her. Cathy followed behind, carrying a cup in her hands.
'You two have been here all evening,' said Sophie, frowning at Haji.
'We are enjoying the view,' Haji explained, 'It is not every day that we are allowed inside a suite.'
'Well, you are supposed to be choosing your companion,' she said, giving him a sly smile.
He looked into her smiling eyes and answered, 'I am looking at my companion.'
The black stripes falling from Sophie's hazel eyes bent around her cheeks as she pouted her lips with delight. 'In that case, your companion requests that you come with her,' she said.
Haji smiled, 'I will do what my companion requests.'
She grabbed his left paw and pulled him away into the hall. Before leaving, she turned to you and asked, 'Alan, will you keep Cathy company?'
Cathy walked up to you, grabbing the cup with both hands. She had a nervous smile on her face and your heart skipped a beat when she stopped at your side.
You nodded to Sophie.
'Sure.'
She and Haji left, crossing the plasma field and vanishing into the green shades of the murky hall, leaving you alone with Cathy.
You leaned your back on the rail in a relaxed manner and stared into the hall.
Cathy leaned next to you, and after an uncomfortable silence, she nudged you with her shoulder. 'So, how are you enjoying the Gathering?' she asked in a kindly voice.
'Very much,' you answered instinctively. 'It's my first time inside a suite. I assume it wasn't easy to convince the Council. Or your caretakers. I guess I have to thank you for the opportunity.'
'Don't be silly. You know you don't have to thank me,' she said, smiling at you.
You smiled back. 
Another uncomfortable silence started to settle, and you steered your mind away, turning your attention to the sound of voices coming from the hall. You looked inside to see how the hunt for companionship was progressing. Amongst the three hundred apprentices that still lingered inside, there was Jack in his Panthera leo in an amused conversation with Marlene in her dazzling attire, and Julia and Heidi in their squirrely attires, who were in turn with their backs turned to Leonard in his Elephas maximus, who was in his own turn pushing his trunk aside with one gray paw and giving her a long face while holding a cup.
'Once we become citizens, we will never see most our colleagues again,' said Cathy. 'I still can't get that into my mind.'
'We can always schedule meetings at any retreat,' you said.
'We can. And we will! But wouldn't it be great if we were allowed to visit each other whenever we wanted? Or decide who we want to be neighbors with?'
'It would.'
'I'm just afraid that we will never see each other again,' she said and sighed. 'I want you to know that, if that happens, I will miss you.'
You looked at her and smiled. 'I will miss you too,' you confessed.
She glanced at you tentatively, her bright brown eyes fidgeting nervously, and spoke, 'You know, we don't have to...'
'Don't have to what?' you asked innocently, all the while sensing that you were nearing some pivotal moment.
'Miss each other...' she said and drew close to you, her fingertips grabbing yours.
When you felt her soft touch your back stretched with one swift jerk, becoming as stiff as a beam of impermium.
'We could always become companions,' she said, drawing herself close to you.
The moment had come. There was no avoiding it anymore. Even if you had dreaded it, you felt relieved to know that your friendship with Cathy had turned out the way you knew it would. The way you had hoped it would. So, you surrendered yourself to the inevitable and asked the question you had been avoiding. 'Do you...want...to be my companion?'
She locked her delighted bright brown eyes onto yours and spoke with the most seductive and enthralling voice you had ever heard, 'Yes.'
If it were out of cold or something else you could not tell, but you felt a tingling sensation run down your spine when she wrapped her arms around you. Still, instead of letting yourself yield to that intimate embrace, you started to worry that someone would see you.
'It's all right,' she whispered close to your lips, seeing your eyes peering from corner to corner. 'The Acolytes aren't paying attention to the balcony. We're all alone.'
Being so close to her was deeply unnerving. Her glossy red lips started drawing nearer and nearer and you felt her warm sweet breath upon your unshut lips. She closed her eyes and pressed her lips against yours, her tender body sinking onto yours, her paws grabbing your back. 
It was finally happening.
But you could not give in to the moment.
There was something strange about it.
For what seemed an eternity, your eyes remained open and you remained stone cold, neither accepting nor refusing her passionate kiss, as her wet lips eagerly felt yours. To that day, Cathy had been the only girl with whom you had shared some level of intimacy, and you had imagined that kissing her would be an epiphany of joy. But now that you did, now that the kiss was happening, you felt nothing other than skin pressed against wet skin and the insipid taste of her saliva. There was nothing stirring inside you. There was no epiphany.
She realized something was wrong, and when she opened her eyes and saw your inexpressive stare, she stopped.
She pulled her lips away from yours and slowly stepped back. 'Well, that was awkward,' she said, skimming one of her long white ears embarrassedly.
 You were dazed beyond words. Still, you tried to rattle an excuse out of your mouth, 'I...I don't know what happened.'
Cathy hid her face, clasping her hands in front of her waist and looking down at them.
'I've always liked you, Alan,' she confessed with some effort.
'I've always liked you too, Cathy.'
She stared at you and asked, her voice hinting anguish, 'Then, what is wrong?'
'I don't know,' you said and hesitated, and then spewed out what you felt was right. 'I am not sure if we should be companions.'
The glimmer in her eyes extinguished, her smile sunk into sadness, and she hid her face under her long drooping ears.
Seeing her so disheartened made you feel painfully guilty. You sensed that somehow you should have enjoyed her kiss and ignored the part of you that said that something did not feel right. And now that everything felt terribly wrong, you stared to consider that the epiphany you had hoped for had been merely an illusion, a product of fantasy, a trick of the mind.
'Cathy, I'm not as...energetic...as Jack,' you said, carefully choosing an appropriate word. 'I don't try to impress every girl just for the sake of having the companion I want. In truth, I am exactly the opposite. I like you, but---'
'It's all right, Alan,' she answered in a tremulous voice, her long furry ears hanging down in disappointment.
Feeling the pain your words were causing her, your guilt turned into anguish, and you said in desperation, 'Cathy you are a great girl---'
'It is fine,' she interrupted you. Then she looked at you soberly. 'But you should not think that way of Jack. He might be immature at times, but he is better than he appears to be, better than many think him to be. If anything, you should be more like him and take a chance with those you want to be with,' she said, and turned, and left to the hall.
You stayed on the edge of the balcony, feeling alone and dejected, unable to understand why you had just turned down the only girl you liked.

***


Hiding under a shadow of the dimly lit green hall, Sophie's and Haji's tender gazes were fixed in mutual admiration.
'I don't know how much longer I can resist kissing you,' Sophie said passionately.
'Well, you must restrain yourself until we are companions,' said Haji. 'We should not breach the Directives for proper conduct.'
The realization of becoming Haji's companion was too overwhelming for Sophie. Out of impulse, she closed her eyes and gently kissed his lips. When she slowly opened them, her lips still lingered near Haji's dumbfounded lips, and she felt that she was having a pleasant dream. Immersed in trance, she allowed them to stay there a while longer.
'I don't care. I have been wanting to feel your lips for too long,' she whispered softly, her eyes partly closed, partly staring at Haji's, who was looking around to see if anyone, especially any Acolyte noticed. Fortunately, they were more concentrated in the larger group of finalists that was gathered around the food.
At that same time, Cathy stopped in an empty space inside the hall, looking lost and saddened, and her mournful look caught Haji's attention.
'Cathy is back inside,' he said. 'She looks distressed.'
Sophie saw her too.
'It doesn't look that it went well. Can you check on Alan?' she asked him gently.
Haji nodded and left.
Sophie walked up to Cathy, who gave her a saddened smile.
'How did it go?' she asked.
Cathy looked down and spoke in a sad voice, 'It didn't work out the way I expected.'
Sophie did not know what to say. She, like any other apprentice, had little experience in relationships, especially those that ended in disappointment. Therefore, she said what she considered to be a reasonable way of accepting the outcome, 'Well, now you know and got rid of that doubt. Don't think about it anymore. He was just one of many,' she smiled at her cheerfully and pointed to the groups of apprentices still in the hall.
Cathy's grief lessened when she caught her smile. 'And he will never know what he missed,' she said and forced herself to smile. 'The Gathering is nearing its end, but I can still find a suitable companion.'
'You will. I will make sure of it!' Sophie added.
Sophie grabbed her hand and led her to the merriest group of apprentices. Jack was there, flaunting his mane as he chatted with Heidi, Marlene and Julia. He could not make up his mind about who would be the best companion for him: he did not know if he would be fond of Marlene's pale skin, after she was no longer wearing her colorful attire, or if he could tolerate Heidi's constant blabbering about everything she had learned in the indoctrinations; or stand the disconcerting gaze of reverence that Julia had been throwing at him ever since he flashed her his smile. He did not care much about the Standing of his companion, or he would have no doubt about choosing Heidi, who was top of her class, and was otherwise interested in which of them had the most carnal appeal and who seemed to be more devoted to him. By the look of it, the first seemed to be Marlene, the latter seemed to be Julia. But Heidi had alluring facets as well, and at that point, if he were allowed, he would have chosen all three of them. 
When he threw back his mane, he realized Cathy was staring at him, and he immediately ignored the three girls and turned his undivided attention to her. When she gave him a sad smile, he did his best to cheer her up. She treated his silly behaviors with kindness and her heart even lightened. Somehow, losing the chance to be with you had made her see Jack as the good friend he was.
...that which disappointed her the most was not losing what could have been...but what will never come to be...

***

'It is time that I left,' you said to Haji as he stopped before you at the edge of the balcony.
'You are not going to choose a companion?' Haji asked.
You shrugged.
'I don't know which one to choose. I guess it's better let Mother decide.'
'In that case, I will go with you,' he offered without hesitation.
'You don't have to. I will be fine,' you assured in an affected manner.
Haji easily understood the ulterior motive hidden beneath your answer, 'Do you think I would let you return to your residence alone with a snowstorm approaching and two Specialists that might be afflicted by the Torment still missing?' he said.
'The Specialists are trapped inside the Hub and the snowstorm will only hit Darm later in the night,' you objected with a seemingly unbeatable logic. 'Besides, it is better that I go alone than Sophie.'
'Sophie is staying with Cathy tonight,' Haji retorted. 'She already has Mother's permission. And I do not trust you to be safe if you are to go alone, even if the Council claims that the Specialists are trapped inside the Hub.'
For a moment you thought that he was worried about your safety. You admired his selflessness, seeing as he was willing to risk his own safety to ensure yours.
'I am impressed,' you stated. 'I did not think you doubted the Council's report.'
He gave you a sly smile. 'It is not mistrust in the Mentalists that drives me to go with you. It is mistrust in your ability to stop yourself from doing something foolish, such as trying to sneak inside the Hub alone.'
You could not deny it. While you were outside alone, pondering about your future, your thoughts had turned to thinking of a way to get inside the Hub, for your mind was set on seeing the Specialists with your own eyes and finding out if the Torment was truly real.
You sighed and abandoned your farce, knowing he had bested you in yet another game of logic, 'You know me too well. All right, let's leave to our residences. But know that I am not pleased about you stopping me.'
He grinned at you.
'I never said I would stop you.'
Eleventh memory - Fugitives in Darm

''They shall be powerful and agile, beautiful and intelligent. They will rise beyond mortality and become the embodiment of all virtues that Mankind so fruitlessly sought to achieve. In one word, they shall be perfect.''

An excerpt rescued from the last diary of Gadim: the Homo Universalis;


Outside Cathy's skyscraper, not a gust of wind could be felt. The black clouds were still settling above Darm, and the avenues were so calm that neither you nor Haji could have ever foreseen the peril that would soon fall upon you, for instead of heading towards a good night's rest, you and Haji entered the bright South Boulevard and walked towards the Hub to try your way inside.
The Boulevard's white marbled pavement was as shimmering and dry as ever, for its tiles were heated and porous so that any snow or ice falling on it would melt and the water would drain. After coming between the two Air Intake Fields flanking the South entrance to the Hub, you and Haji stopped at a distance from the imposing plasma barrier. Under the lighted gap you had crossed earlier that day, you could still see the same squad of six sentinels guarding the access with untiring alertness. 
Haji sat on one of the large, heated benches that split the Boulevard in two. He was pleased to be back inside his green uniform, although he felt that his animal attire had suited him very well.
'Stay here,' you said to him through your facemask's speaker.
You approached the checkpoint alone to confirm the assumption Haji had made regarding entrance in the Hub. Stepping into the arched gap, two sentinels moved to block your passage and you heard Mother's gentle voice coming from one of their blue featureless facades:
'At present time, darmians are not allowed inside the Hub. My apologies for the inconvenience, apprentice Balthazar. Order ensures progress.'
'It is important that I enter,' you said firmly.
'At present time, darmians are not allowed inside the Hub. For matters of urgency, please contact Mentalist Vittas. Order ensures progress.' the sentinel repeated in the same manner, only to stand before you, unflinchingly, like a solid statue. 
The irony of contacting the Mentalist responsible for darmian security to sneak around in a restricted area was not lost on you. You let out a frustrated sigh and turned back to join Haji again.
He was still sitting calmly next to the warm gust of air coming from a ventilation box, already knowing what the outcome of your attempt would be.
'Mother won't let us in,' you muttered.
'I assumed as much,' he answered through his facemask's speaker.
'We could create a distraction that would force the sentinels to leave their post and then slip inside,' you suggested.
'I hardly doubt Mother would leave the entrance unguarded,' he answered unaffectedly. 'And have you considered the consequences of being caught?'
'We could activate the Signal Re-Route,' you suggested tentatively.
Haji did not even bother to reply.
...find a way in...
You grunted in dismay. 'There must be a way in! Can't you think of anything?'
'I do not believe there is one, Alan,' he said kindly. 'It is certain that all entrances are equally secured, and the plasma barrier encircling the Hub is very much impenetrable.'
'So, we are just going to give up?' you asked.
'My apologies, Alan, but there is not much I can think of. Mother is vastly more intelligent than any of us and her droids have unerring perception. Even if, somehow, we had managed to gain access to the Hub, in no way would we be able to evade so many sentinels, not to mention the drones,' he said and pointed at the specks of light glowing dimly in the dark sky above the Hub.
It was hard for you to admit, but Haji was right. Mother's use of the Darmian Security Droids as her proxy allowed her an almost omnipresent supervision of Darm. But this was what made the matter all the more intriguing to you. How could she have let the Specialists escape the Project Facility in the first place? And how could it be that she has not found them yet?
'However, there is a related matter that I did not tell you until now, mostly because I wanted something to cheer you up after your foiled attempt,' Haji said. 'If you say you found the bracelet outside the Hub and if the bracelet indeed belongs to the Specialists, that means they might be outside already.'
You stared at him, quietly considering the possibility. If that was indeed true, then you were at liberty to search for them in the other sectors, you thought. As you gazed absentmindedly into the Air Intake Field to your right, you remembered where you had found the bracelet and the most obvious of hypothesis came to you.
'I have an idea of just where they might be,' you said enthusiastically. 'Follow me.'
You started heading back down the South Boulevard, close to the edge of the left Air Intake Field.
Haji got up in a hurry. 'I did not mean that we should go looking for them,' he asked, his voice denoting concern.
 'No, no... were just heading back,' you answered furtively as you hastened your pace.
'Why do I sense that you are going to get us in trouble?' Haji said, hurrying to stand by your side.
You chuckled. At this point you had cleared the South Boulevard and were walking along the edge of the Air Intake Field, towards the East Boulevard, where you had found the bracelet.
'So, you and Sophie,' you said in between hurried breaths, while taking short glances inside the darkened field, where tall towers pulled in the freezing air above the metropolis.
'We will become Companions,' stated Haji.
'I'm happy for you. And for her,' you said hastily.
'What about you and Cathy?' he asked. 'I assume you discussed about companionship with her when you were alone in the balcony?'
You remembered the moment when you and Cathy kissed. 'Sort of...but I decided not to be her companion.'
'For what reason?' Haji asked.
'For no reason,' you answered evasively, peering inside the Field again.
'If there is no reason, your decision does not make sense.'
'Well, there is a reason,' you retorted with indifference. 'She kissed me when we were alone in the balcony. But I didn't feel anything. Anything other than her wet lips, that is.'
Despite being surprised with Cathy for breaching a Directive, he followed his line of reasoning, 'And you allowed the absence of feelings to serve as grounds for a decision?'
You shrugged and chuckled. 'I guess I did.'
'Why?' he asked, utterly confused.
You sighed. 'It just doesn't seem right to be with someone if you don't feel anything when you kiss her.'
'Alan, be reasonable,' and Haji's voice showed concern and care. 'You and Cathy have been friends since the start of apprenticeship and you have always been in good terms with each other. As best as I can reason, she seems to be the most suitable companion for you. You should not throw away the opportunity to be with her out of lack of an emotional response to a physical intimacy.'
You stopped on your feet to ponder his point of view, staring into the Air Intake Field in front of you. Anguish began to boil inside you, and you felt increasingly confused about your decision.
'You should not let feelings overcome reason, Alan. If you miss the opportunity to choose her now, Mother will choose someone for you with which you might not have any common interest.' Haji said, concluding thoughts, and were his face not hiding under his facemask and you would have seen his witty smile.
You looked at him and smiled. 'You're probably right,' you admitted with modesty.
At that moment, Haji turned his attention to the residences on his right.
'Our residences are that way,' he said, and pointed to the large blocks of houses standing quietly in the dark.
'I know,' you said with resolve.
You approached the waist-high wall, the gust of the towers gently pulling you in. You glanced from side to side and when you made sure that no sentinel was watching, you raised one leg over the wall.
Almost immediately, you heard Haji's nervous whisper from behind you, 'Alan, what are you doing?'
 'I'm stepping inside,' you said as you landed one foot on the other side.
'We are not allowed inside the Air Intake Fields. It is very dangerous. We could get caught by a draft and sucked into one of the air inlets.'
'All the more reason to see if there is a Specialist in need of assistance inside,' you retorted wittily.
Haji's voice rose to a loud whisper, 'Do not climb that wall, Alan Balthazar. Mother knows you will!'
Your feet landed on the pavement on the other side.
An eerie silence followed.
You looked back and smiled, 'Still haven't received any message.'
'Just wait and see. The sentinels will be here in no time,' he said, and his voice was now considerably aggravated for he was starting to realize you were beyond reasoning.
Still, the silence remained undisturbed. No clanging of metallic feet was heard in the distance. Only the quiet gust of air rushing above your heads.
You let out the thought that had been brewing in your mind, 'Haji, I found the bracelet near the edge of this very Field. The Specialists could be hiding here. Don't you want to see the Torment for yourself?'
Haji looked at you quietly, his concern hiding behind the facemask. He was moved by your appeal. Even so, he answered in sound judgment, 'Not if it implies being banned from Darm. Mother knows where we are! And the Torment is very dangerous. The Specialists are not themselves. We could be endangering our existences if they see us.'
'Well, I am going,' you said stubbornly. 'And if I recall correctly, you said you were accompanying me to see to my safety, did you not?'
'I did,' he said, knowing where that line of thought was headed.
You added in a mischievous manner, 'So, if I am going, you should come too, edgy.'
He stared at you silently. Then, he took a deep breath. 'This will not end well,' he said before stepping over the wall.

It was not long before you were lost in the dark, quiet maze of towers, and neither Boulevard nor plasma barrier could be seen. Howling above you, were furious gusts of frozen air being sucked into the air inlets of the tall towers, whose beacons of light at the top faintly lit your way. The wind was relentless, and even though it was not strong enough to pull you into the air inlets, it was strong enough to hinder your movements significantly. So, you trudged on with great effort, towards where, you did not know.
'We will never find anything in this storm,' you heard Haji's calm voice in your mind as a freezing wind raged through you, throwing you off balance.
You could not disagree with him. Not only were you unable to see anything further than two meters ahead, but the idea of being attacked without any warning by a specialist suffering one of the manifestations presented to you in Fundaments of Existence was starting to make you feel nervous.
'A few more minutes and we leave,' you conveyed the thought to him, more to reassure yourself.
Suddenly, a shrill cry broke through the wailing wind. Were it a scream you could not say, but its haunted echo carried an ominous feeling. 
You froze in place, peering into the darkness between the towers to your left.
'Did you hear that?' you conveyed the thought to Haji.
'It seems to have come from there,' Haji's voice answered as he pointed into the dark labyrinth of towers. His next thought came with unease, 'Alan, we should leave.'
The feeling that you were endangering not only your existence, but the existence of your best friend finally became too much to ignore. 'All right. You're right. Let's go back,' you answered, and started heading towards Haji, who was just a few meters behind you.
Just as you were about to reach Haji, something big hit you with such strength, that your facemask flew off your face and you were thrown to the metallic pavement. The connection you had established with Haji was immediately severed as an overwhelming dizziness engulfed your every thought.
Haji ran to you and kneeled. 'What happened?' he asked aloud, his voice greatly amplified by the facemask's speaker.
It felt like you had been run over by a speeding glider. Your head was spinning around so frantically that you had to shut your eyes and lay very still just to avoid losing consciousness. 'Something big hit me,' you answered through clenched teeth.
He quieted himself and focused on his surroundings, but heard nothing except the wind raging through his raised hood.
Haji looked around nervously, but saw nothing except the dark shadows of the intake towers.
Then, to his surprise, three meters away from him, a body lying on the metallic pavement crackled into sight, steaming with water vapor. It wore a slim white exoderm with a belt and a lowered white hood covered its face.
'A Specialist,' Haji cried, even though he could not see more than a white figure.
When the figure would not stand up, he approached it cautiously.
'He seems unconscious,' he shouted through the gale between you.
You risked opening your eyes a little bit to look at him, but without the facemask, the freezing gale stung your eyes. 'Help me get up,' you shouted back.
Haji walked up to you, wrapped his arm around your back and helped you stand up as fast as you could manage. You head throbbed painfully, and the haziness you felt warned you that anything short of walking would send you back to the ground. Fighting the strong wind, you picked up your facemask, and after attaching it to your cold numb face you dragged your feet towards her and knelt next to Haji.
Haji pulled back the white exoderm on the figure's slender left forearm. 'He is not wearing any Unit,' he said after examining his forearm. 'He has to be one of the missing Specialists.'
As you admired the soft angular chin beneath the lowered hood, you felt a sudden desire to pull the hood back.
It was her. 
Your eyes widened in awe when you saw how beautiful her cool pale face was. Even more surprising was her hair, white as unspoiled snow, and it shimmered as snow does when the soft rays of morning hours gleam upon its frozen surface.
...I know her face...
This was when you saw her for the first time. Time seemed to stop, and the wind and towers faded into forgetfulness, as you lost yourself admiring her beautiful face. As you laid your eyes upon her, you had the strange feeling that you had seen her before, as if she were someone dear to you, someone you knew for a long time.
'I know her face,' you said in an awe-stricken tone.
'I am notifying Mother,' Haji shouted.
...stop him...
You shook your head, regaining your awareness.
'No!' you cried. 'Wait!'
Breaking the link to his Unit, Haji stared at you and spoke apprehensively, 'Alan, she might wake up at any moment. Then what will happen?'
As the dizziness slowly faded, your thoughts became clearer. 'Does she look like she's suffering from the Torment?' you insisted, and when you looked at her again you lost yourself admiring her beauty once more.
Haji looked at her and hesitated. His reply was lost in a disconcerting surge of hypotheses as to who she was. After examining her attentively, he concluded that she was not one of the Project Specialists, for she was not wearing any uniform or insignia and no Specialists was as young as she seemed to be. Her mere appearance seemed too otherworldly for a darmian.
...help her...
'We have to help her,' you pleaded to him.
Even though Haji could not be entirely certain that she was not a Specialist, he felt that whoever she was, trying to help her would not end well for you and him.
'I don't think we should,' Haji shouted, the winds raging on relentlessly between you. 'I have a bad feeling about helping her.'
'Didn't you just tell me not to let feelings overcome reason?' you asked sternly.
Haji shook his head in disapproval.
'I'll carry her,' you promptly added. Ignoring the throbbing pain in your head, you lifted the girl to your arms. She was not very heavy, but she was taller than you.
'And where do you propose we take her?'
'Out of this Field for a start,' you shouted back, and you glanced around before heading out.
Haji sighed and followed you.

...it almost seems as if my past self heard me when I urged him to help her...
In a manner of speaking, he did. Yet, at the same time, your desire to help her came to you as a reaction to what your past self felt, for your present and past self are part of the same soul. You are one with him. His will is your will.
...then I can command myself to change the past...
There is no way for any soul to alter the Tides of Fate, be it by will or force, for it is a place that cannot be defined by time or space. The events you see here have already occurred in an infinite regression and at the same time are yet to occur in an infinite succession. As such, your future is, and will always be, a reflection of your past; and, at the same time, your past will always be a reflection of your future.
...I do not understand...
In time, you will. For now, know this. All that is to come in your existence as Alan Balthazar has already come and pass. The universe itself is but a fleeting glimmer of light, and as you linger here in the ebb and flow of life, you are seeing events as they truly are: visions of ages long gone.

And so, as you fled East through the countless towers, your weariness began to slow you down and you started to lag behind Haji. Although the girl was not heavy, you - like all darmians - were not used to carrying heavy objects, even less another person.
You leaned on a tower, your arms burning up from exhaustion. 'I cannot carry her any longer,' you shouted amidst your panting.
After gently laying the girl on the pavement, you slid your back down the tower and sat on the floor.
Haji crouched beside you and waited in silence for you to recover. 
As your strength slowly returned, your eyes were unconsciously drawn to girl once more. There was such calmness in her cool pale face that, when you lost yourself admiring her, something awoke inside you, an overwhelming fervor that rushed from within and overflowed to your thoughts.
'We have to hide her,' you said out of impulse.
'Have you lost all reasoning, Alan?!' Haji burst out desperately. 'Stepping inside an Air Intake Field is a serious breach of the Directives, but what you propose is far worse. She is most likely related to the missing Specialists, and we are endangering our existences merely by being close to her! And Mother knows we are here,' he added gravely. 'Our best course of action is to leave her here and return to our residences and await Mother's contact. We will surely have to face the consequences of what we have done.'
Haji would rarely lose his temper and you knew he was right. Still, you would not be discouraged. The sense of commitment towards the girl had become so strong that you would not think of anything other than helping her, 'If our Units have not yet received any notice from Her, chances are that She's not even aware of us being here.'
Strangely enough, as you spoke, the relentless winds were slowly abated, until an eerie quietness engulfed you.
Through the waning breeze, a faint clanging of metal came to your ears, distant at first, but every clang louder than the previous. You and Haji stared at each other, halting your breath and standing completely motionless, hoping the sound would go away.
Clink. Clank. Clink. Clank. The sound was approaching rapidly now, becoming easily discernible. You realized it was coming from the darkness above. You lifted yourself up and peered into the top of the towers. No air was being draw into them anymore. They had been deactivated.
Clank! Clank! Clank! Clank!
The last four clanks smashed the metallic floor with the shape of four evenly spaced pairs of claws. Your heart started pounding in your chest, when above the claw shaped marks, four slender droids, black as night, emerged out of thin air, encircling all three of you against the tower and denying you any chance to escape. They looked in many ways like sentinel droids, but their structure was slimmer and lighter, their limbs more agile and slenderer, and they bore no insignia of the D.S.D. on their chests. They were Stalkers, droids designed for the sole purpose of capturing darmians who had strayed too far from Darm's directives, and it was the first time you saw them.
Through their featureless visages came the automated voice of Mother in unison, 'Apprentices Alan Balthazar and Haji Donovan, you are to submit yourselves for peaceful arrest.'
Haji immediately dropped to his knees, bowing his head low and raising his arms forward so that his hands were out of his sight, following for the first time the Directive for arrest as best as he knew. Even though he was aware that there were severe consequences waiting ahead, he sighed with relief, believing that your senseless misconduct had been timely stopped, given that now you would have no other option but to obey Mother.
...what a fool...what short work he could have made of them if only he knew the power he held...
Contrary to what Haji had expected, you did not submit or surrender, neither bowing your head nor raising your arms. You did kneel, however, to gaze down at the girl's beautiful face and lift her up by placing her right arm around your shoulder and your left hand around her waist. Then, you surrendered to the desire to rebel that screamed inside your head:
'No,' you said imposingly.
Haji looked at you and spoke in shock, 'Alan?! Obey Her command. I beg you!'
Despite your defiance, Mother did not falter. Each of the four stalkers raised one of their dark slender arms at you, and from atop their forearms a small compartment with darts emerged. Her response was cold and uncaring:
'Apprentice Balthazar, you are to desist and surrender the specimen immediately. Failure to comply will lead to the use of tranquilizing darts.'
You stood defiantly, filled with the intense desire to stop them, but you did not know how. When despair was about to overcome your resolve, you felt the girl move in your arms and so you looked at her. She lifted her head and opened her eyelids, revealing two deep blue eyes. They gleamed with a light of their own, dim at first, but growing ever brighter.
With one effortless move, one droid aimed his forearm at the girl's neck and fired a single dart; his aim was true, and the dart carved itself in her bare neck. The girl grimaced, but at that moment, a burst of blue energy shook the air around you, knocking you to the ground, and sparks erupted from the joints of the four droids. Their heads and arms and legs became limp, and they came falling to the ground simultaneously, where they jerked in a spectacle of convulsions. When they stopped, the smell of burnt circuits emanated from their black inert shells.
'What happened?' said Haji, staring at the droids with incredulity.
The girl looked at you with her deep blue eyes. They were so compelling that you felt completely drawn to them. She opened her mouth as if to speak, but moaned faintly, before her head collapsed onto your chest and the weight of her body surrendered hopelessly to the strength of your arms.
Worry overcoming you, you lowered her and gently laid her on the pavement. She was eerily still.
'This can't be good,' you said to yourself.
You hastily removed the strange object from her neck; its tip was filled with a single drop of her blood. You pulled the exoderm of your forearm back and allowed the drop to fall onto your Unit; then, you issued it to scan the chemical components. The Unit conveyed to you that it had traces of a substance you knew to have sleep-inducing effects.
'She has been sedated,' you said, letting out a relived sigh and then looking at Haji, who was standing before the disabled droids fuming on the ground, his back turned to you.
'This incident is beyond reproach,' he said in complete dismay. 'It will most likely lead to our banishment. We will become Outcasts, like many before us.'
Upon hearing him, it struck you that he had just come from the Gathering, where he and Sophie had decided to become companions. He was a bright apprentice, one of the brightest of your generation, and all his expectations were close to being fulfilled. But now all seemed lost for him, and you were the sole responsible.
You shook your head in denial. 'The droids malfunctioned! We had nothing to do with that,' you cried out.
Haji would not even turn to look at you. 'It doesn't matter. The little chance we had of leaving the field without alerting Mother is gone.'
You forced yourself to gather some sense, but what had happened was too surprising. 'Haji, this girl is not one of the missing Specialists. There is more to this than what we were made aware.'
'True as that may be, there is nothing we can do to help her,' he said dejectedly.
'Don't you want to know who she is?!'
Haji turned to look at you. 'Alan, we have most likely jeopardized our citizenship. If we help her, we might even lose our existence.'
The feeling that you had to help the girl was so strong, that you promptly rejected his claim. You were determined to ensure her safety and you go as far as to ignore every Directive, confront any droid and sacrifice your existence if you had to.
'There is nothing we can do, Alan,' he said.
A reasonable solution came to your mind, 'We hide her in the Shelter. The dispersion field that envelops the chamber prevents any scans from detecting her. If we hide her there, she will be untraceable by any known sensors, even Mother's.'
Haji allowed himself to reason with you to try and make you understand the helplessness of the situation. 'Considering we manage to get there, how do you suggest we gain entry to the facility?'
'If we get there, that won't be a problem,' you replied with confidence.
Your answer could only lead him to one conclusion. 'You know the override code to the maintenance entrance?'
'I do. I saw it two weeks ago when Brent typed it in the touchscreen.'
'Mother changes those codes every week, Alan,' he stated.
'At least we have to try!'
 Haji shook his head in dismay. 
'Considering she has not changed it, how are we supposed to get there?' he asked condescendingly. 'We are to succeed in carrying the girl without alerting our presence to Mother?' he said. Following his line of thoughts, his reasoning led him to the inevitable fact, 'Alan, we have no chance of success. Our best course of action is to leave the girl and present ourselves to Mother for peaceful arrest. There might still be a chance to avoid our banishment if we request the Council's pardon and submit to cognitive rehabilitation,' he added in a warm consoling way.
...protect her...that is all that matters...
You had followed the Council's Directives without any other choice for so many years, that you could not bear the thought of submitting yourself to their will any further, especially because you had done nothing wrong. Combined with that resentment, the desire to help the girl became so strong, that you knew beyond doubt what you had to do. You clenched your fists and spoke in a solemn voice, 'I will hide her in the Shelter. You should not come. This is my decision and I should face the consequences alone.'
You tone carried such resolve, that it imprinted itself on Haji's mind like an undeniable truth. He knew he would not make you see reason. 'You are willing to forfeit your citizenship for a girl you do not know?'
You gazed once more at the girl lying helplessly on the pavement. She seemed to be resting peacefully now.
'I will not let Mother have her.'
Haji knew he could not reason with you any longer. He let out a frustrated sigh, glanced into the cold darkness that surrounded him and was drawn once more to the grave notion that he had broken several of the most important Directives that night.
'Then, I will go with you,' he said.
Overwhelmed with guilt, your voice lost all its resolve and was now a helpless plea, 'Haji, no. You should return to your residence.'
'I would never leave you alone, troublemaker,' he replied with warm compassion. 'Besides, my help will improve your odds of success.'
...I remember now...the day I tried to encourage my colleagues to skip indoctrinations...he has the same look as when he faced the Overseers that came to arrest me...
He was but a young boy, yet he stood stubbornly between you and the two tall figures of authority, denying them passage.
'But we cannot allow Mother to find out the location of the Shelter. That would risk Brent's citizenship as well,' he added. 'I suspect that if we attempt to return to our residences we will be arrested. That leaves us with only one solution. We must activate the Signal Re-Route remotely.'
Activating the Signal Re-Route remotely could risk everything that Haji had planned for his future. Mother would notice the inconsistency in your location and once you were arrested, your units would be examined. It would be easy for any technician to see that they had been tampered with, and the consequences of that were beyond cognitive rehabilitation. All that would be left for him would be the ominous void of uncertainty.
'Done,' he said and looked at you with lively eyes.
You were disappointed with yourself for having cornered him into helping you and you felt as weary as a retired citizen. You gave him a frail smile from underneath your facemask and expanded your consciousness towards your Unit, focusing on conveying the thought of activating the Signal Re-Route.
'Done,' you said soberly. Then you lifted the girl into your arms. 'Let's go.'

...he risked his life to help me...
That is what a true friend does in times of need. But his actions were not entirely selfless. He found it deeply disturbing to see those menacing droids under Mother's command, and when he saw the girl wearing no Unit and seeming entirely unaffected by the Torment, he began to consider that the account of the missing Specialists had been a clever fabrication, forged to conceal what had really happened. It was an immensely disturbing thought for someone not accustomed to lies and deceit. He felt his trust in the Council was being put on trial and that finding out who the girl was would be the defining action that would allow him to trust them once more. Therefore, he helped you not only because he was worried about your safety, but also because he needed to know the truth.

***

A droid leg was flattened beneath the weight of a metallic foot. Scattered between the deactivated Air Intake Towers were the four discomposed Stalkers. Wollen examined the surrounding area with his sensitive infrared sensors and found a faint trace of heat on the pavement. He approached it, minding his steps, and studied it. In the freezing temperatures the signature had all but disappeared and he could not make out what they meant.
He sniffed the stagnant air.
'The specimen. And an apprentice,' he reported, and his voice was vicious and distorted.
Watching him from the darkness was Mentalist Vittas. He was wearing his crimson mantle, clad with gilded stripes on its shoulders. He had a proud look on his pale face and his gaze seemed to bear an omniscient awareness of everything that surrounded him. He looked down at Wollen, whose crouching form seemed like a misshapen amalgamation of flesh and metal.
'Two apprentices, whose curiosity and foolishness led them to the specimen. They are carrying her out of the field towards the Administrator Sector. Bring them to me as well,' he commanded in an impassive tone. 'Their actions cannot go unpunished.'
Wollen's maimed face lit with a rotten grin. 'With pleasure,' he answered in a ghoulish voice.
With unnatural ease, he leapt vertically, landing on the top of an Air Intake Tower twenty meters above, and then probed the darkened sea of towers with his cold monocle, attempting to find any heat signature.
'Wollen,' called the crimson Mentalist from below. 'You are not to harm them.'
Wollen's cheerful grin sunk underneath a frustrated sneer.
'Yes, Master Vittas,' he answered before his form vanished into the night.

...hideous abomination...neither pyrean nor machine...
Not all cybernetic organisms are foul. To join life with machine may seem unnatural, but the result is still made of elements of the Tides of Fate. In this sense, there is no ingenuity of the living capable of overcoming the tides, for all sentient creatures are bound to them, therefore all that they conceive is still part of the tides. Your ancestors were aware of this phenomenon, even though they did not fully understand it. They named it the Plenitude Principle, and it is the reason why invention cannot be defined as acts of creation, but as acts of transformation. So long as the Tides of Fate continue to flow, the boundaries of transformation are endless.
However, Wollen was a particularly malignant form of life, for he had been purged of all kindness the moment his body was transformed by Mentalist Vittas. He was as old as Darm, and he was designed to become an obedient servant, one able to hunt down darmians that had been deemed unessential to the progress of the metropolis. After so many years of subjugation and punishment under his master's rule, Wollen's mind had become filled with both envy and hatred for all unblemished life, and the only appeasement he found came from inflicting upon darmians the suffering that Vittas inflicted upon him. Of the countless darmians who fell prey to him, some were fortunate enough to survive the encounter and were banished from Darm; others, particularly those unwilling to surrender, suffered a more violent end.

***

'I have to rest for a while,' you conveyed the thought to Haji.
You were breathing intensely through your facemask. Drops of sweat were rolling down its edges and dripping on the marbled pavement. Inside the relative safety of a dimly lit residential cloister, you laid the girl next to you and sat with your back against the outer wall of a residence. The night had become particularly cold and windy - a sign of the impending snowstorm - and when you removed your facemask to refresh yourself, the freezing air flooded your lungs and forced you to cough. You slapped your mouth and listened quietly, hoping that the coughing had not been heard by any sentinels marching on the streets just outside the cloister. To your relief, the only sound to be heard was of water trickling in the fountain at the center of the cloister.
You removed your glove and touched the girl's face. Her skin was cold and hard. Worrying that the freezing temperatures would be too much for her to bear, you undressed your jacket and wrapped it around her face, tying a knot loose enough to allow her to breathe.
The polymerized edges of the facemask gently adhered to the shape of your face, restoring warm air to your lungs. You leaned your back on the wall and peered down the alley towards the street you intended to go. 'There are hardly any sentinels to be seen,' you conveyed the thought to Haji. 'I would think that Mother would be more interested in finding us, yet I haven't received any communication from her.'
'There is definitely something wrong in all of this,' Haji answered back.
You gazed at the girl as she slept. 'Mother called her specimen. What do you think she meant by that? Could Specialists be experimenting on pyreans?' you spoke in a hushed voice.
'I don't know,' Haji answered with disquiet. 'But despite the disturbing implications, that could very well be the case. She is not wearing a Unit, which means that she either exposed to the Torment or she is immune to it.'
'Perhaps,' you said absentmindedly. You were thinking about the moment the droids malfunctioned. She was staring at them with a glow in her eyes, a deep blue glow.
Haji muttered, 'We must leave. Haste is essential if we are to succeed in hiding her in the Shelter.'
His words pulled you back to the quiet residential cloister. You peered once more into the street between the residences and made sure there was no sentinel patrolling it. Re-establishing the link to his Unit, you conveyed the thought to him, 'Let's go. Your turn to carry her and my turn to see if the way is clear.'
'I was expecting that,' he answered as he lifted the girl into his arms.
Haji followed you close behind as you crossed the street towards the next residential cloister, only to cross the cloister onto the next street. You repeated this process with growing efficiency, always looking around the corners of the alleys before stepping out, always attentive to the sounds coming from the streets, always hoping that neither clink nor clank would resound off the rooftops. After many cloisters had been left behind and many casual patrols of sentinels avoided, the time to enter the Manufacturing Sector drew upon you.
Standing at the end of one of the last alleys before the bright East Boulevard, you and Haji studied the two pairs of sentinels that guarded it, performing their mechanical back and forth march. They swept a segment of fifty meters, each pair patrolling a separate lane of the Boulevard, and they moved in opposite directions so that their combined line of sight granted them a seemingly flawless perception of the Boulevard. Fortunately, you were aware that sentinel visual sensors had a field of vision limited to 160 degrees, a specification that few darmians were aware of, but something that had helped you and Haji avoid them on many occasions on your journeys to the Shelter. 
Studying their perfectly synchronized march, Haji noticed that if you crossed the lanes just as both pairs turned their backs to each other you could reach the other side before they turned around at the end of their segment. To accomplish this, the timing and speed had to be flawless; but you had mastered an activity that was much alike the task. To you, it was as simple as calculating a drifter jump between the paths of two other drifters.
Waiting for the right moment, you conveyed to Haji a concern that was starting to trouble you, 'When Brent finds her in the Shelter we will be in a lot of trouble.'
'Let's worry about getting her inside the Shelter first,' Haji answered. 'Go, now!'
You left the alley, sprinting across the dry pavement, the warm gust of wind coming from the ventilation boxes muffling the sound of your footsteps as the sentinels marched away from you. When you reached the alley at the other end, you turned to see Haji lagging behind as the sentinels finished their segments, and for a moment you felt that he was going to be spotted.
Haji crossed the Boulevard just before the sentinels turned around, stopping by your side as the clinking of footsteps passed by.
He sighed with relief. 'Flawless,' he conveyed while panting from carrying the girl.
'Just like beating Zigvirat,' you returned the thought while chuckling.
Haji allowed himself to chuckle with you as he recovered his breath.
In that moment of respite, you looked back to the alley where you were before and you thought you saw the odd gleam of a metallic figure. Its shape was too bent and distorted by the warm vapor spewed out from a ventilation box to make out, but it did not seem a droid for its head did not have the same metallic gleam as his chest. You were trying to make out what it was when Haji nudged you.
'Come. We're still not out of danger.'
You nodded to him.
With haste and caution, you covered the distance to the Shelter through the alleys and streets of the tall facilities. For the first time in your existence, you had lingered in the streets well into Sleep Time, and the same course you were so used to take on peaceful bright afternoons, now carried with it an ominous darkness and a strange silence that warned you to be doubly aware. It had not been the first time you had breached a Directive, nor would it be the last, but never to this point. Mother was actively searching for you, and it was only a matter of time until She found and arrested you. Yet for all your worry, there was still not a single sentinel to be seen. The Manufacturing Sector was nothing more than a dark quiet place, whose empty streets and tall shadowy buildings resembled more the surreal constructs of nightmares than the prominent Manufacturing Facilities of Darm. Even worse, was the heavy snow that had begun to fall, a sign that the snowstorm had arrived.
You halted at a snowy alley, three alleys away from Brent's, and waited for Haji as he stopped next to you, struggling to hold the girl on his arms.
'Let's carry her together,' you conveyed. 'There doesn't seem to be any sentinel here.'
As you lifted the girl's arm over your shoulder, a slow repetitive clinking crept down the narrow walls. You immediately looked up at the facility's rooftops, but you could not see past the white flakes of snow that rushed towards your visor. The thought of black droids suddenly emerging out of the thick white snow and surrounding you in that narrow alley rooted you in place. You glanced at both ends of the alley, staring for what seemed an eternity.
'Run,' you whispered feebly.
A hideous laughter echoed down the walls. This time, when you looked up, there was something looming over the edge of one facility, something bearing a strange resemblance to a pyrean crouching in an odd fashion and staring down at you, his head bowing low, his hands gripping the edge of the roof between his feet, its bent knees pointing upwards. His face was too darkened to make out, yet its misshapen form seemed unlike anything you had ever seen.
Startled by that apparition, which you could only describe as a grotesque manifestation of the Torment, you darted down the alley, sharing the burden with Haji, as you both carried the girl on your shoulders. 
Just as you were nearing the street, you and Haji recoiled as a plume of snow lifted into the air before you when something heavy smashed the pavement. As the plume settled, you saw to your shock that the thing that was staring at you from the roof was now standing before you as clearly and vividly as needed be. His appearance was grotesque, a tall long-limbed body made of decayed flesh and silvery metal, all bound together by screws and sutures. His muscular legs were a concoction of flesh and pneumatics with sturdy metal kneecaps and metallic feet; his bare abdominals were surmounted by a wide chest clad in silvery armor; his bare left arm was overly muscular, layered in decomposed flesh, while his right arm was made of metal and pneumatics with a metallic claw as a hand. It was Wollen, and he cast a terrifying gaze at you with his dark monocle and a pale gray eye surmounted by a scarred forehead. 
'Going somewhere?' he asked in a harsh mechanical voice.
You stared at that strange spectacle of misshapen flesh and bolted metal, all the while thinking that in no way could the crude contraption in front of you be one of the missing Specialists.
'What are you?' you asked with a puzzled look on your face.
The creature let out a sinister chuckle and extended his claw-like metallic hand. 'Hand her over,' he ordered, exposing a gruesome line of rotten teeth as he grinned.
You were too perplexed to reply, but not perplexed enough to forget the task at hand. Empowered by the sense of commitment towards the girl, you placed her on Haji's arms and conveyed the thought to him, 'Take her to the Shelter. The code is ''seven-two-nine-two-four''.'
 Then you put one step forward, challenging the frightening creature.
Haji would not argue with you; the sight of that mixture of flesh and machine had baffled him beyond words. He nodded and headed back to the way he came, dragging the girl beside him.
Wollen feigned a left hook to your face. When you ducked, he leapt over you like an agile animal and thrust himself towards Haji. Sensing his approach, Haji threw himself onto the snowy pavement, the girl falling next to him; he had avoided a vicious blow to the back instants before it landed.
Unimpressed by his quick reaction, Wollen halted his momentum, turned around, and bent towards him, extending his hand as if to help him stand up. 'I will not let you run, so why not spare yourself from a beating and come with me?' he asked with a strange formality, almost like that of a citizen of Darm.
Fueled by a desperate rush of adrenaline, you recalled all the fighting that took place in the halls of the Drifter Races and dashed towards him, lunging at him, feet first, and clashing against his silvery back. It was a direct hit, and he rolled down the deep alley until the blanket of snow halted him.
'Go, now!' you said aloud.
Haji heard you plainly. He jumped to his feet, lifted the girl to his arms and ran past you. As you saw him leave, he disappeared into the snowy darkness. It was up to you to stop the creature from chasing him.
'You should not have done that,' you heard him speak somberly.
You turned to look at him, three meters away from you, only to see him rise to his feet and calmly wipe the snow from his plated shoulders. Ignoring the urge to flee, you gazed around, searching for something that would help you confront him, but there was nothing in the dark alleys of the Manufacturing Sector. You stepped backwards nervously, clenching your fists, crushing the dread that ran rampant through your body, 'Come any closer and I'll do it again,' you provoked, the voice projected from your facemask trembling with doubt.
Wollen chuckled scornfully and twisted his neck from side to side to extend its muscles, his joints snapping softly. 'I might just have to, but I doubt you will even see me,' he said just before he encroached upon your listless body with impossible speed and struck you with an overpowering blow the stomach. 
You immediately fell to your knees, coughing uncontrollably.
Staring down at your defeated posture, he said with displeasure, 'Are you ready to give up? Or do I need to beat you up a little more?'
Ignoring the nauseating pain, you jumped to your feet and aimed a succession of angered jabs to his head, but none made contact, as the creature successively dodged them with ease. Your strength slowly draining away with each consecutive miss, you aimed one desperate fist at his bare abdomen. 
Wollen did not dodge it. He did not have to. His solid abdomen took the blow without so much as budging while the impact almost broke your wrist. Looking down at your quavering body, he chuckled in his deformed timbre, and with one single swooping kick to your abdomen, he sent you tumbling down the alley.
After you came to a stop, you grabbed your aching abdomen while moaning in pain. Wollen allowed you to recover, staring at you in an unimpressed manner as you sat on your knees, moaning and struggling to breathe. It was hard for you to accept, but you had no chance of stopping the heinous creature standing in front of you. You were hopelessly outmatched and the only thing that prevented you from succumbing to the debilitating chest pain was the unmitigated desire to help the girl. As you clung to that thought, her deep blue eyes came to your mind, her soft cool face grimacing as her head collapsed against your chest. Even if you could not stop him, to the least you would ignore the pain a little longer and use your remaining strength to stall him for as long as you could.
...confidence comforts...
Calmness enveloped you as an unexpected sense of confidence overcame your thoughts. You removed your facemask, exposing your face to the freezing air and gazed peacefully at the pyrean's maimed countenance five meters away from you. He did not seem unsightly anymore, nor did he seem menacing. He was merely someone, something, a thing that had to be stopped.
...courage strengthens...
Wollen growled and charged towards you, building up a relentless momentum. His attack would most certainly injure you severely, but you did not falter. You stood your ground, focusing on the single purpose of stopping it. He aimed his knee at your chest, but you did not lose heart. You crossed your forearms before you, driven by the desire to withstand the blow, even if it would ultimately cost you your existence.
...resolve protects...
Your eyes were kindled with the red glow of resolve, as all your consciousness was engulfed by that overwhelming emotion. Your forearms were flooded by a burning torrent of blood and the exoderm upon them was torn asunder by a myriad of red crystals that erupted from the skin. Wollen's knee smashed against it furiously, but the crystal shell held firm, receiving the blow without shattering, projecting a bright flash that for a second painted the dark alley in crimson.
The blow knocked you and Wollen to the ground, and after you scrambled to your feet, you could only but stare in awe, your eyes widened upon the thick shell of red crystals softly gleaming on your forearms. You could not comprehend what you were seeing, but before you could make any sense of it, Wollen - who had already gotten up - aimed a foot at your chin; out of reflex, you blocked the attack with one forearm, and once more, the red crystals deflected the blow, projecting a bright crimson flash and casting the creature back.
Excitement flowed through you as you realized you now had something you could defend yourself with, and without any other thought you aimed your fist at the creature's awe-stricken face. He was too surprised to avoid it. To your own misfortune. 
When your fist struck the creature's face, you felt a sting of pain so intense that, before you realized what had happened, you were down in the ground, grabbing your wrist with a cry stuck in your throat. 
When you looked at your arm, eyes narrowed in pain, there were no more crystals on your skin; your frail bones had been too weak to withstand the impact and your hand was shattered. The pain was excruciating, but even before you could overcome it, Wollen grabbed the collar of your exoderm and lifted you into the air. Then, he thrust you against the wall, grabbing your left forearm and staring at its back. When he saw your Unit properly adhered to the skin, he was confused for a moment. He leaned towards you in until his face stopped a breath away from yours.
'How were you able to manifest?' he asked in a commanding tone, his breath reeking of rotten teeth.
You could not stop moaning in pain, so he threw you towards the other wall. When your back and head smashed against it, your sight was filled by an explosion of sparkling lights, and unrelenting waves of wooziness sapped all the remaining strength from you. 
You collapsed over the snowy pavement, and as you teetered on the edge of consciousness, you heard an irritated growl and a statement filled with disdain, 'Pitiful.'
...if only I could harness them...

***

'Alan!' Haji screamed, as he ran towards your fallen body.
He kneeled right in front of the Wollen, ignoring him altogether, and turned you upwards. You head drooped down but your lips still moved. He leaned one ear close to your mouth and heard you moaning faintly. There was still some consciousness left in you. He saw your facemask fallen on the snow, the falling snowflakes piling upon it, picked it up and attached it to your face. Then, looked up at the creature, which seemed to be immersed in calm contemplation, and spoke angrily, 'You mindless thing! Why would you harm him?'
Regaining his attention, Wollen looked at him and saw that the girl was no longer with him.
'Where is the girl?' he promptly asked with a clear commanding voice.
His voice was so powerful, that Haji was utterly compelled to answer. Instead of revealing her location, he forced himself to answer evasively, 'I do not know which girl you are talking about.'
Wollen approached his maimed face and asked menacingly, 'Where is the girl you found in the air intake field?'
Haji clenched his teeth and tried to resist the commanding voice. 'Beyond your reach,' he answered, grimacing from the effort.
'Where is she,' Wollen asked again, and his voice was becoming impatient. 'Tell me, now.'
It took Haji a painful amount of self-control to remain quiet. Ignoring the command and the pain triggered by his defiance, he focused on trying to find the best way to rescue both of you from that helpless situation. He soon determined that the best option would be to expand his mind to his Unit and alert Mother. However, a lingering thread of reasoning warned him that the creature would stop him with a vile attack.
It was precisely what Wollen did. Noticing his blank stare and realizing what he was trying to do, Wollen swung his fist at his face with a clean right hook that would have knocked him out cold and put a swift end to his attempt. Haji instinctively ducked and the clenched claw grazed his green hood, throwing it back. 
Wollen stared at him for a moment, surprised by his timely reaction; he had swung his fist so fast that Haji could not have seen it coming, yet he had managed to avoid it.
...to every action there is a reaction...
What your kind came to know as causality. Haji's understanding of this principle, combined with his will, allowed him to foresee the chain of events just before they occurred, and for the moment that followed, he continuously foresaw every jab, hook and uppercut Wollen threw at him, avoiding them altogether, either dodging, ducking or rolling over the snowy pavement. 
Yet even if Haji succeeded in avoiding every strike, he had not a second to reason what was happening. To him, he felt as if he was deeply immersed in a trance that granted him sight of the creature's movements just before it moved. The premonitions became so familiar, that he was beginning to gain the upper hand, and with the advantage he managed to gain, he had time to plan a cunning counterattack. 
Ducking a fierce hook, he kicked a tuft of loose snow from the pavement, blanketing the air between them; exploiting the dim visibility he jumped and threw both his feet at the creature, mimicking with perfect accuracy the movement he saw you perform moments before. A brute force travelled from his snow-screened feet to his legs and he knew he had struck the creature.
 He fell from the impact, the blanket of snow cushioning his fall; without wasting time he hastily expanded his consciousness to his Unit, utterly breaking his awareness. 
From the blanket of snow, on came a jab that hit his chest, knocking the air out of his lungs and hurtling him to the ground.
The snow settled. 
Wollen's scornful grin came to sight; he was standing in the same place, seeming unaffected by the double kick. 
'You only blind yourself,' he uttered.
Dumbstruck, Haji stared at the creature while trying to understand just how it had seen his move. It could not be an infra-red sensor for the cold snow would blind all heat emission.
Smiling at Haji's incredulous stare, the creature tapped his finger next to a cavity on the metallic plate that coated the left side of his skull, 'Ever heard of pressure waves?' he asked mockingly.
No sooner had he spoken than Haji realized he would not manage to stop him much longer. Coming to terms with the dire situation he was in, he knew his only solution was to run to the street and alert any sentinels passing by. But he recovered his concentration only to foresee another onslaught of jabs, hooks and kicks, and the confrontation prolonged for a few unwavering minutes without presenting any victor.
After countless near hits, when Haji had finally managed back away towards one end of the alley, the creature dashed past him with impossible speed. With his back turned against him, Haji sensed that some new unknown threat was imminent, and he immediately threw himself to the ground, just before a lance sprouted from Wollen's claw and struck the impermium wall like a hammer striking solid metal. 
Haji rolled over one shoulder and quickly got up. Only then he saw the long lance sprouting from the creature's metallic arm as it pricked the left wall of the alley. The lance slowly recoiled inside his claw as Wollen stood upright, staring at him calmly.
'Impressive,' he said. 'Let's see if you can avoid this as well.'
Wollen's face was filled with an expression of sheer anger and his pale gray eye was lit with a bloody red glow. Almost instantly, the fleshy arm grew to twice its size, his clenched hand becoming like a solid block of flesh.
The shock of what Haji was seeing broke his awareness and what could have been a prediction of a vicious blow quickly became the blow itself: the creature's bulging hand flew against his chest giving him only the time to raise his forearms to block it. 
The impact was so overwhelming that it shattered Haji's left forearm and threw him backwards. Overwhelmed with sharp pain, Haji was soon struck by a vicious barrage of jabs that lit the alley in red each time Wollen's hand struck his body. Then, one hook to the face sent Haji's facemask flying to one side and his body crashing to the ground. 
The freezing wind pierced his face as he curled up in pain, his eyelids shut, his teeth clenched in agony. His body was aching, feeling the metallic flavor of his own blood wandering around his mouth as he rolled on the floor. He heard the creature's footsteps crunching the snow as he approached.
Wollen dropped to one knee and drew his scarred face close to Haji's kind face, now flushed from the cold. He picked up the facemask with the tips of his thin metallic fingers, brought it to Haji's face and squeezed it into place in an abrupt and unkind way.
Now that his face was inside the protective layer, Haji sat on his legs and opened his eyes to see the abominable creature merely a breath away. He saw his raging expression return to a calm deformed countenance and his arm collapse back to its normal, albeit muscular size.
'Now...are you ready to tell me where you hid the specimen?' Wollen asked with his harsh voice, its warm breath fogging up Haji's facemask visor.
A thought warned Haji of how easy it would be to carve a swift right hook on the creature's fleshy left cheek. Just after he foresaw the success, he threw his fist. 
The punch did not carry much strength, for he was in great pain and exhausted, but the force was sufficient to rip though the creature's decomposed flesh and sink into its teeth, the jaw detaching itself and his head coiling to the side.
Haji rolled away and slowly rose to his feet, gaining some distance in the process.
'Not quite ready yet,' he said between exhausted breaths.
Wollen shook his head disapprovingly. He got up slowly, reattached his jaw, and spat a pair of rotten teeth into the white snow, smearing it with spatters of dark blood.
'You should not have done that,' he said in the same manner as before. 
Just as Haji stared attentively at the creature, trying to foresee its next assault, his mind became abruptly shrouded in darkness.
The last thing he saw was the blood red ember gleaming on the creature's pale gray eye, just before it vanished. 
Wollen delivered a crushing blow to his face, his feet were lifted off the ground, his body spun in midair and he fell face down on the snow.
He coughed once, his lungs drew one last meager breath, and his heart gave out.
Then, there was nothingness.
...not even after a thousand deaths would I spare you from retribution...

***

'Haji!' you cried out in despair.
Standing next to Haji's lifeless body, Wollen turned to look at you. He crossed his arms patiently and chuckled at your feeble attempt to drag yourself along the wall towards him. 
He leaned his head onto the left shoulder and sneered in contempt.
'Haven't you had enough?' he asked.
With two simple hops he covered the distance between you and sunk a knee in your ribs. The air from your lungs was sucked out as you flew to the ground. 
As you lay on the snow, gasping for air that refused to enter your lungs, he gripped your head with his enormous fleshy hand and lifted you high above the ground. You felt your skull being crushed by the tremendous pressure and out of sheer instinct for survival you grabbed his wrist, howling in pain.
He chuckled mockingly when he saw tears rolling down your anguished face. 'Tell me where your friend took the girl and I will stop hurting you.'
The piercing cold worsened your efforts to breathe. You could barely open your eyes, but still you opened them and locked them onto the creature's pale eye. Your innocent young features shifted from gentleness to somberness as if you had become a grim, proud pyrean.
'You will never find her,' you uttered in a coarse voice.
Wollen widened a rotten smile.
'My, my...she is fast to work her charm,' he mocked. 'My master told me she is the most beautiful thing one can lay eyes upon. That a mere glance from her can steal one's will. I might just have my fun with her before I deliver her to him,' he said and licked his chapped lips with a horrendous dark tongue.
His words filled your mind with anger and your eyes were kindled with rage. You growled through gritted teeth and your arms began to convulse and grow larger only to stop just before becoming as big as the creature's.
Upon seeing the change, Wollen was struck with a mix of wonder and delight. 'You want to punish me? You want to hurt me for what I did to your friend?'
He clenched his claw around your left forearm and you felt a surge of electricity course through your body, causing you to writhe in uncontrollable spasms. Sharp pain stung your mind as the forearm with your Unit erupted in sparks.
'Show me how much,' he said, his deformed voice burning through the sharp pain, consuming your every thought.
A fiery rage took complete hold of you. All the pain was suppressed by a burning sensation and your body began to grow uncontrollably, your head becoming too large for Wollen's hand to grasp. With one increasingly growing hand, you grabbed his stretched out arm and with impossible strength snapped it in two with a single crushing grip. Then you clenched your other hand around his neck and lifted him even higher above the ground, his feet flapping away as you gripped his neck ever tighter. You had become almost twice his size and your face had been twisted beyond recognition, becoming the face of wrath, eyes burning like two boiling embers, teeth crushed in uncontrollable rage.
...I will destroy you...
When you spoke those words, your voice was unlike any sound you had uttered before. It was guttural, seeming more the deep bellow of a beast than the voice of a young pyrean. Your oversized hand was about to snap Wollen's neck when something cold pierced into your abdomen, drove through your gut and erupted from your back. You looked down to see a long silver lance plunged into your abdomen.
Without warning, the cold lance was instantly heated, singing your insides and cauterizing the wound. Then, you were struck by a shock wave of pain and were immediately deprived of all the rage that flowed through your body. Your overgrown hand, once firmly clenched around the Wollen's neck, collapsed back to its normal size and fell limp at your side. Your body slowly shrunk to its normal size, and your unrecognizable grimace receded to an expression of wonder as you sunk to your knees and keeled over.

***

A chilling wind blew on your face as your consciousness sunk into an ever-darker abyss. In its last flicker, you felt a remote and repetitive clanking of metal striking metal and the waning murmur of a heart. You sensed it skip a beat, and then pulsate hesitantly. It thumped once more, faintly, and then again, strong and lively, as one announcing the deathly silence that followed...
Prelude to Ascension

A single resounding boom echoed in a darkened void. In the still silence that followed, the boom reemerged, turning into a slow persistent thumping, whose vibrant waves began to stir the void. Beleaguered by the unrelenting clamor, an entity began its sluggish awakening, slowly becoming aware of the resonance that threatened to destroy the dark foundations where it had slept for an eternity. The thumping grew louder, and the walls of the void began to crack, and from the gaps that began to form, sprouted slender beams of light that bathed the entity with an indistinct sense of warmth. And as the cracks grew larger, the pitch-black shards that broke free from the walls began to fall into the infinite void, like the last drops of rain in an everlasting night. Drop by drop they fell, as the unremitting clamor shattered the lingering foundations, and when the very last shard was felled by the very last clamor, which was clearer, stronger, more vibrant than any other, a blast of light vanquished the darkness and bathed the entity in pure white. And where once was darkness, now there was light. It was then that the entity became aware of herself. Her senses awoke, and she felt the warm embrace of the light surrounding her and heard for the first time the distant singing that echoed in the infinite white. Like voices from a choir bound together by harmony they sang, and she felt the desire to merge herself with them, and so she did. She felt their presence surround her, become her, and she rejoiced, for now she knew her eternal solitude had come to an end. Now she was a whole, a golden mist formed by a boundless host of souls that sang to her an eternal gestalt of music.



End of Part I of Ascension

