Tenth memory - The Gathering

''Love is that which gives us so many reasons to smile and at the same time too many reasons to cry.''

A passage from a recovered manuscript of the Antiga Pyre: Unknown Author;


Cathy's skyscraper was one of the nearest to the western shore of the Specialist Class Sector. After tidying up your residence, you and Haji headed off in that direction. Haji had suggested taking the Panoramic Highway, concerned that the snowstorm that had been forecasted would hit Darm sooner than anticipated, but what you had to say was best not to be heard by prying ears. So instead, after crossing the South Boulevard, you and Haji made your way down one of the long avenues, surrounded by imposing skyscrapers. Along the avenue, there were ventilation boxes that continuously spewed a warm flow of air into the streets, and hovering lamps that cast small circles of light on the white pavement. Mithras had begun setting on the horizon, slowly relinquishing the heavens to an ominous blanket of grey clouds that approached from the sea.
'It has to belong to the missing Specialists,' you said to Haji through your facemask's speaker.
'It could belong to anyone, Alan,' Haji answered. 'However, given that it is an unusual object, I would speculate that it could very well come from the Project Facility. By the look of it, it seems to be some sort of identification tag.'
'Then there's the symbol of infinity on the clasp,' you said, adding evidence to his reasoning. 'It must have a meaning of some sort.'
Haji replied with some disquiet, 'If the bracelet does belong to the missing Specialists, it is best that you deliver it to the D.S.D.. You were very fortunate that the sentinels did not find it when they scanned you, or you would be in trouble.'
Instead of feeling concerned, you mocked, 'Maybe they were so impressed by my hoverboard that they ended up overlooking it,' you said.
'That is unlikely,' Haji answered, unchanged by your attempt of humoring him. 'The most reasonable explanation is that they categorized it as a personal item.'
'Well, I am not returning it,' you retorted firmly.
'It was merely a prudent suggestion,' Haji replied and smiled, 'I did not think you would.'
Nearing Cathy's skyscraper, you shared a moment of silence.
'Did you know that the antigans had a different designation for the symbol of infinity?' he said out of impulse, for his mind had been giving continuity to the conversation.
'No, I didn't,' you answered inattentively, while you made plans to find out more about the bracelet after the Gathering.
'Well, they did. They named it lemniscate. I found the definition and its origin on an off-topic thread. It was not even in the Fundaments of Modelation segment.'
'How did you come across it?' you asked.
'By chance, when I was preparing a Fundaments of Modelation indoctrination,' Haji said innocently.
A few minutes later, you arrived at the skyscraper's anteroom, just as gentle snowflakes began leisurely descending from the gray sky. After crossing the curved permaglass door, elegantly decorated with imprinted depictions of Specialists in various activities, you removed your facemasks and took off your gloves. For a moment, you felt trapped inside the soundproof anteroom, between the falling snow and the impassable plasma barrier that blocked the access to the entry hall. You approached the touchscreen imbued next to the plasma barrier and waved your forearm near it. ''Access Granted'' flashed in green on the touchscreen and you crossed the harmless barrier for it had adjusted its frequency to match your body's frequency, allowing you and only you to traverse it.
Haji repeated the process, and soon both of you were inside a comfortably acclimatized round hall, tall and wide, and all but empty except for four columns separated at equal lengths from the center. The walls were made of pure gold , which reflected the bright light coming from a portentous crystal chandelier hanging from the golden ceiling. As was custom in all skyscrapers, you placed your boots, your gloves and your facemasks on the two small compartments that opened on the wall to the left and took two pairs of fluffy slippers from inside them.
'Comfy,' you said as you put on the slippers and felt them around your feet.
Haji smiled at you. 'They are. Even if the insulating properties of our exoderm are enough to keep us warm, they add an extra comfort to walking.'
'One more reason to become a Specialist,' you teased.
The compartments closed as you hovered your Units over its touchscreens. 
A few fluffy footsteps later, you were at the end of the lobby, facing the magtubes that would hurtle you to Cathy's suite.
'You go first,' you said with a look of aversion, as you stared inside the floorless tube.
Haji smirked at you, 'Still afraid of falling?' he teased.
'I am not afraid of falling!' you promptly grunted. 'I just don't like stepping into...nothingness.'
'You do know that the probability of falling is close to zero,' Haji explained before he himself stepped inside the tube. 'Even if there was a sudden power shortage the safety nets installed below every level would catch you.'
He had barely placed his two feet inside when he fell into the dark, wiggling his raised arms and yelling helplessly.
Blood drained from your cheeks and your eyes widened in panic. You were just about to jump in to try and rescue him when he slowly floated up, smiling at your terrified face, and then flew upwards.
'Ohhh...I will get you...' you said through clenched teeth before finally stepping in.

When you reached the right level, you jumped out of the magtube and found yourself next to Haji in a long narrow lobby veiled in darkness. Its dim lighting came from hidden lamps in the sides of the floor, whose soft beams climbed the golden walls and lit the ceiling. As you peered inside, you noticed the slender shape of two pyreas in strange clothing, chattering at the other end of the hall. You quickly concluded that they were finalists coated in animal attire.
One of them approached you. 
'You're here!' she said in a joyous voice.
You immediately recognized the voice, but Haji spoke first. 'Salutations, Cathy,' he said and bowed. 'I would never have recognized you with that animal attire.'
Cathy gave him a wide smile and slowly spun around herself. Her body was coated in short white fur, firmly adhered to her slender curves in such fashion that enhanced her sensuality. She had furry white tufts on her hands and feet and one on her lower back, and a pair of tall, folded ears springing from her curly red hair. Her gorgeous face was covered in white make-up, her lips glossy red, her nose black, and pairs of long whiskers sprang from her cheeks.
As you admired her from head to feet, you wanted to say how impressive she looked, but somehow, you had been rendered mute. She looked unusual yet striking, intensely compelling, irresistibly compelling. Without apparent reason, you felt an intense itching in your whole body, and you could not resist scratching yourself.
'Alan?' she asked, surprised by your odd gestures.
Haji elbowed you. 'Stop that,' he spoke with a sidelong glance.
'I can't. Sometimes I get a strong itchy feeling when I get out of a magtube,' you explained.
'It is a rare side-effect caused by the magnetic field that traverses through the Nervous System,' he said, looking at you sternly. 'It happens when the nervous system suffers a critical breakdown. You probably will turn into a puddle of organic matter soon.'
When your Unit did not signal that he was lying, you widened your eyes in terror.
'Of course, the probability of that happening is even lower than suffering injury by falling down a magtube,' he added with a sly smile.
You glared at him. 'I am so going to get you.'
Haji chuckled and then looked at Cathy. 'Are you not going to introduce us to your friend?' he said.
Cathy's friend had been silently watching the conversation, amusement filling her furry face.
'You don't recognize her?' Cathy asked.
Her attire looked even more exotic. Her body was coated in short amber fur sprinkled with round black dots; at the end of her smooth curvy back a long tail extended down her slender legs. Jutting from her auburn hair were two small round ears and the make-up on her face drew two dark strips that fell from her eyes down to her soft chin, granting her an appearance both stunning and wild. She drew out a long white smile that contrasted with her black nose and her amber glossed lips.
'I told you he would not recognize me,' she said with a soft subtle voice.
Haji gave her a stunned gaze. 'Sophie?'
Sophie giggled and nodded her feline head. Her green eyes shone at him with glamour.
For the first time, Haji was completely speechless. An undeniable realization awoke in him at that moment, and he knew beyond doubt that she was the girl he was going spend the rest of his existence with. 'I am at a loss for words to describe how remarkable you look, Sophie,' he said with some effort.
Sophie's bright brown eyes overflowed with happiness. 'If it were not for the make-up, you would see that I was blushing,' she said.
You felt the need to make amends for your stagnant staring and intervened with a somewhat similar comment. 'You don't look that bad either, Cathy,' you told her in a confident manner.
Cathy's joyous smile turned into an incredulous stare.
'Is that all you can say, Alan?' Sophie asked with amicable derision.
You shrunk under Cathy's increasing glower and began stuttering incomprehensibly, all the while thinking that it had been best if you had kept on smiling and scratching yourself, quietly.
'Do not feel disappointed Cathy,' said Haji. 'When Alan is impressed by something, he sometimes has bursts of inappropriate comments.'
'He's bursting, alright,' she said, her arms crossed and sneering at you. 'With silliness.'
You stopped scratching yourself. 'I am so, so, so gonna get you,' you whispered close to Haji ear. Then you looked at Cathy and spoke courteously, 'My apologies, Cathy. I meant to say you look as remarkable as Sophie, if not more.'
Cathy forced a smile. 'That sounds better,' then she pointed to a sliding door to the right. 'Now that Sophie and I have been properly complimented, head to the printing device and put on your animal attires. Other people are arriving.'
She had just finished speaking when the magtube announced the arrival of two more guests with a soft tune.
After bowing you both followed through the door, entering a wide and well lit room, the suite's coatroom, and found the device at the center standing on a round base with two steps. It was a tall transparent cylinder, much like an incubation tank. The touchpanel was above a small station next to the door and was waiting for input.
'An actual printing device,' you said as you slid your hand across the device's transparent door. 'I wonder how many credits it cost.'
'Being under the care of Specialists has its advantages,' Haji stated without any ill intention.
You and Haji removed your uniforms, leaving nothing but the dark-gray exoderm on your skin, and placed them on an opened wardrobe imbued in the wall, with green jackets and pants hanging on hooks. Once the hooks felt your uniforms, they receded inside the wardrobe before it closed, leaving a flat wall in its place.
'You can go first,' Haji said.
'No, no. You first,' you answered as you rushed ahead and took the place in front of the station.
Haji smiled and hopped in, closing the door behind. 
Looking at the touchscreen, you dragged your fingers through the attire menu and when you found Haji's Linx pardinus you nodded at him. The thought of getting even with him by tampering with the printing device crossed your mind, but after carefully checking the device's status you started the coating process without changing its specifications, thinking no amount of retribution would justify ruining your best friend's Gathering. 
Haji closed his eyes and stood still, as the chamber was filled with water vapor; then, a metallic ring filled with countless miniscule nozzles descended from its ceiling which began to spray his body with layers and layers of a silicon-based gel in an up and down cycle. You watched his transformation, as he was slowly coated in layers that thickened with each passing of the ring. His face was equally changing, becoming masked by layers of silicon apart from his eyes and lips, which had been previously covered by a protective film.
When the process was complete, the ring bathed him in a hardening layer that solidified the silicone gel to the point of becoming rugged and furry, before a spray of multi-colored ink tinged him until he became like a furry brown animal splattered with black patches. It took a little more than five minutes before the last step started. The ring withdrew into the ceiling and a gust of air coming from fans in the floor blew away any residual substances and dried the ink in place. A sharp ding! announced that the process was complete, and the door was opened. 
When Haji stepped out of the chamber, he looked similar in every way to the Lynx pardinus image displayed on the touchscreen, apart from his graceless walk. Had you not seen the process happen before your eyes and you would have never recognized your best friend if he were to walk up to you unannounced.
'You look just like it!' you said.
Haji looked at himself in the mirrored wall, turning from one side to the other, seeing his long brown tail with a dark tuft at the end. He picked it up with his right paw and felt its fluffy fur; then he patted the ruffs of fur falling from the sides of his chin and smiled.
'Remarkable,' he said as he gazed at his feline face, his dark nose, and tufted ears.
'My turn!' you said and eagerly entered the device.
When Haji selected Ailuropoda melanoleuca and pressed the initiate command, a flashing red light lit inside the chamber. You gently closed your eyes before you were engulfed by a warm and odorless water vapor. As you stood very still, the makeover cycle began anew and worked the same way it did with Haji, only this time it took longer to finish, much longer. The build of your animal was large and bulky, and many more layers of silicon had to be added to complete it. Your legs and arms swelled and swelled to three times their thickness and your chest and head became chubbier. When the hardening and coloring layer was applied and the blowing air subsided, the door opened, and you emerged from inside the cylinder. You were so large that you were barely able to cross the narrow opening with your black and white pelt.
Haji was widening a merry smile. 'You have put on some mass,' he said.
'I can feel it,' you answered and gave him a chubby smile back.
You examined yourself in the mirror. Your chest and head were coated in white fur while your arms and legs were coated in black. A pair of dark tufted ears that seemed more like fluffy lumps had sprung from atop your forehead and your eyes were encircled in black rings of fur. You were just like as you had imagined, and you felt it a well-deserved reward for putting so much effort into creating the procedures for the attires.
'We are ready,' you told Haji and gave him a feral grin.
'Without question,' he said and grinned back.

When you entered the suite's common room, you were immediately awed by the decoration and the countless number of apprentices coated with animal attires. Before you, was a tall vast hall with four supporting columns as large as the ones from the lobby, but these were covered by display curtains, the same type used in the Retreat's booths. These took on the guise of brown tree bark, whereas the curtains on the ceiling and the floor were correspondingly dark green and grassy green, which gave the columns the appearance of trunks of trees and the ceiling and floor of leaves and grass. On the four corners of the vast hall were large tables filled with appetizers and hundreds of apprentices were snacking around them, wearing the most unusual animal attires. Others were enjoying the marvelous sight beyond the round window-wall that comprised the entire outer wall of the hall. Beyond it, the air outside was already thick with snow.
 'This is quite impressive,' Haji said.
You heard him, but your mind was turned to your surroundings, ands as you wandered inside the hall, eyes widened, you felt a hazy sensation of familiarity with the forest projected onto the display curtains, with the animal attires walking about, with the soft verdant fragrance being conveyed into your Unit by scent-inducing brainwaves. The boundaries of reality blurred and mingled with the faint reminiscence of something you had long dreamt. Every detail seemed to represent the scent and look of things long gone, things that were claimed by fate and vanished, never to return.
...I see trees as tall as towers...I breathe the soft smell of flowers...I sink into the green and blue...and I am reborn anew...
Words that shall forever be remembered. For, you see, there is a bond between all life that cannot be severed by indoctrinations or split apart by great walls. Even if neither of you had ever seen a tree nor felt the fragrance of nature, you shared a connection to them, and it felt to you, that the decoration was as real as life.
'Alan?' Haji called you.
You looked at him absentmindedly. 'What?'
'I said, Cathy put the suite to good use,' he repeated.
'She did...indeed,' you said, even though you still did not pay attention.
Walking towards a great round table at the center, an apprentice attired with an imposing animal prowled towards you and Haji and blocked your way, raising his arms up high and arching his fingertips as if they were retractable claws. He was enveloped in a long mantle of golden fur and had a huge thick mane on his head with two pointy ears perching from it at the top. His face was painted in shades of brown and yellow and his big nose and lips were splattered in white and brown hues. A charming odor emanated from him, too out of place for his attire, but appropriate enough for an apprentice that enjoyed scented cleansing gel, which could be ordered at the Support Center and whose scent could be customized. 
He widened his jaws and roared menacingly.
'Salutations, Jack,' Haji greeted him and bowed.
His brown and yellow cheeks shrunk with disappointment, and he threw down his arms. 'What gave me away?' he asked.
'Other than already knowing the animal you chose?' Haji said. 'The distinctive fragrance of your cleansing gel.'
'I knew I shouldn't have showered,' he said, jolting his head and slapping one leg. 'Nevertheless, beware or I will ravage you with my smile,' he said, raising his arms again and pointing his claws at him.
'I wouldn't do that,' Haji said and grinned. 'You might intimidate your potential companion.'
He fell into a casual relaxed posture. 'I am only rehearsing for my presentation,' he said. Then he took a moment to examine Haji's attire. 'I have to admit. You look good. I never thought you would look exactly like the image on the touchscreen.'
'And that is how you recognized me,' Haji concluded.
Jack shook his huge mane from side to side, flaunting it as he combed it with both his paws. 'Well, flattering as it may be, you still do not look as good as I,' he said and unleashed his big smile.
Impressively enough, it seemed to you almost as huge as the mane itself.
'I was right,' you said to Haji. 'Not even the mane can compete with his smile.'
Your comment caught his attention, and he gave you a harsh stare. He still had not forgotten what had happened during mentor Gordon's indoctrination.
'And what happened to you? Did you somehow exceed the daily dosage of nutrients for the entire year in one day?'
'I wouldn't dare to compete with you,' you said and smiled.
'Good for you, because no one can compete with me!' he stated, striking Haji with another smile.
You still felt guilty for what had happened to him, so you thought it was best to be nice and let him have his proud moment.
'You seem to have prepared well for the Gathering,' Haji stated after studying his behavior. 'Have you chosen your companion already?'
Jack's smile was shattered into a toothy grimace. He let out a frustrated sigh and answered, 'I have. But I still haven't asked her. I hope I do until the end of the evening. Imagine ending up with Leonard,' he glanced sideways and pointed with one thumb to a bulky Elephas Maximus leaning alone on a wall. 'How fun would that be?'
'Does it even matter?' you said serenely. 'Companions are merely intended to share the same residence and look after the descendants appointed to them.'
Jack lifted his chin high as and spoke proudly, 'It matters to me. I shall have a female companion, and together we shall present Darm with the most attractive descendant ever: Jack Thompson Junior.'
You chuckled amusedly.
Haji gave him a sly smile and stated, 'Your expectations might deceive you. You're basing yourself on the assumption that a girl would want to be your companion.'
With his head, Jack nudged towards a round group of feral pyreas. Some were ogling at him discretely and sharing inaudible comments and giggles. 'I am making no assumptions,' he answered, flashing an overconfident smile. He then pointed to the great round table, 'Now, come taste the appetizers my caretaker designed.'
At that moment, a Pan troglodyte and a Macropus giganteus entered the hall coming from the coatroom, and as you examined their attires you knew them to be Samuel and Markus, two fellow apprentices from your class. Sophie and Cathy were following behind. Cathy stopped to talk to some finalists while Sophie winked at Haji and called him with one index finger.
'If you excuse me, I will go talk to my future companion,' Haji bowed and went to meet with her near the permaglass wall.
'Wait, what? Don't go!' Jack said, signaling him back, but Haji was already on his way. 
'Well, that leaves you,' he said to you in a displeased manner.
'Lead the way,' you answered, smiling through your black and white fur.

As you reached the large table, you noticed the hundreds of apprentices around it, chewing with delight. You stopped before it to look at a seemingly endless assortment of the most unusual geometrical appetizers, each piling up on different trays. There were wobbling gelatinous solids, big and small, each with different shapes and colors, ranging from yellow hexagonal pyramids to orange pentagonal prisms, to brownish irregular heptahedrons and multicolored octahedrons the size of a clenched fist. But the most massive spectacle was standing at the center of the table: an exact replica of Cathy made of hardened gelatin, from small toes to curly red hair. One of her hands was lifted in a greeting gesture while the other seemed to have been chopped off.
'Cathy ate it!' Jack promptly explained when he saw you looking at the mutilated arm.
'Apart from that, it looks really impressive,' you answered kindly. 'It looks like an edible version of her.'
'I made it myself. I had a hard time not to eat it,' he whispered to himself, however too loud.
When your looked at his melancholic gaze, you sensed in him a mixture of conflicting feelings as assorted as the appetizers themselves. Grief blended with joy, passion merged with uncertainty, until an overwhelming dread poured from his lips, 'Do not say a word to Cathy!'
You smiled. 'You have my word,' you said and pressed your lips.
'About what happened today at the indoctrination,' he said embarrassedly. 'I accept your apology. But we're not even. Do not think that I will forget it was you that---!'
Just as he spoke, an extremely elegant female apprentice coated with the most unusual animal approached the table and stopped next to you. Jack's attention was immediately drawn to her curvy shape and stopped mid-sentence, his dumbstruck mouth open, when she leaned over the table to examine the appetizers. Her body was entirely coated in iridescent scales, which refracted the dim light coming from the chandeliers hanging above, and when she stretched her arm to pick up a cup from the table, the scales shifted from red to green to blue in a dazzling spectacle of colors. She realized Jack was staring at her, and when she turned her eyes to him, Jack immediately pointed to a tray and spoke to you in a hasty, yet unusually eloquent manner:
'And here you have my caretaker's famous nutrient hips---I mean strips!---made with a vitamin complex and glucose, and infused with a unique flavoring, which only he knows the chemical composition of!'
You picked up a strip and tried it, happy that he had already forgotten about the incident. At first you chewed it with care, but when you felt the sweet and sour flavoring, you chewed it with pleasure. 
'Tasty!' you remarked with delight.
Jack was not even listening. He was still stealing sidelong glances at the girl as she leaned over. He was trying not to seem obvious while desperately attempting to recognize her, but under all the scales it was impossible for him to figure out who she was.
You looked at him as you chewed.
'Would we be even if I told you who she is?' you asked.
'You know who she is?!' he whispered with eagerness close to your ear.
You nodded at him with indifference, 'It's Marlene.'
Jack's eyes widened in disbelieve. 'Marlene?! Pale Marlene?' he whispered, raising one eyebrow and staring at her. 'She looks so...colorful. Are you sure?'
You chuckled. 'She does. I suppose that's why she chose that attire.'
Marlene was becoming clearly uncomfortable with Jack's barefaced stare. For a moment, it seemed that her face was becoming pale, just before she turned and left, her scales glistening as she walked over the grassy floor.
Staring at her as she left, Jack said, 'Well pink suits her very well, as does red. And blue. And look at that purple waist,' unable to resist anymore, he added. 'I think I will go talk to her.'
You could not hold your laughter, imagining the result of his attempt to impress her. 'You do that. Just don't ravage her with your smile.'
'Of course not!' he answered with such a wicked and wide grin that even with the scarce light his teeth shone as bright as Mithras. 
He prowled over to her, preening his huge brown mane.
'Someday that smile will get him in trouble,' you heard Cathy's voice behind you.
'Definitely,' you answered.
Then both of you turned to see Jack, flashing a smile towards Marlene, while she smiled back shyly.
'But this is the occasion it suits him best,' you added.

The Gathering lingered on into the evening to the discrete sound of chattering and giggling. Darmians did not know how to enjoy themselves, and to them the idea of fun was as close to their mind as Mithras was to Artica. There were no raised voices or boisterous behaviors, for everyone followed the Directives for proper conduct, maintaining their poise and constraining their discussions to the latest indoctrinations and one or another update on the cure that Mother had recently made available to inquiry, always under the patient scrutiny of the twenty Acolytes standing like statues around the permaglass wall and looking inwards.
Once all the finalists had sated their thirst and hunger, Cathy, the appointed hostess of the Gathering, gave continuity to the main event of the evening, the individual presentations, which had begun soon after Lunch Hour and were paused during Dinner Time. To that purpose, the one thousand finalists sat on small puffs, filling the wide hall with a large audience that turned to the vast darkness on the other side of the permaglass wall. Between them and the transparent wall, the floor itself rose to the height of a stage large enough to bear the length of the largest animal coating, which was not yours by chance, but Leonard's bulky Elephas maximus. You sat in the row before the stage, between Cathy and Haji, which sat next to Jack and Sophie correspondingly. It was with great joy that you watched each apprentice present their animals, and as the evening progressed, so too would you and your friends present theirs.
Cathy climbed to the stage, turned to face the countless staring eyes and recited with her happy, sweet voice, 'Despite belonging to the domain of terrestrial animals, the Lepus arcticus inhabited cold snowy regions much like the ones we have today in the boreal areas of Artica. They were herbivorous and likely fed on sparse vegetation growing in these regions. They used facial pockets to store food that they gathered while they hopped back to their burrows under the snow. The most probable cause of extinction was the lowering of their habitat's temperatures to levels far below sustainable conditions to the vegetation on which they fed. They were small and cute and very friendly, and that is why I chose them,' she said and bowed.
She stepped down the stage, receiving the second loudest ovation of the evening, in part due to being the hostess, but also for the pleasing way her short white fur contrasted with her red curly hair and glossy red lips.
'Red looks good on you,' Jack commented discretely after she sat next to him.
Cathy glanced at Marlene, who was two rows behind them, chatting with Heidi in her Petauristini and Julia - a mutual friend from another class - in a Sciurus carolinensis. 
'It looks good on Marlene too,' she retorted, giving him a cold smile.
Jack was hesitant at first, but then added with confidence, 'Good as she may look, it is the attire that makes her beautiful, while you are beautiful for yourself.'
Cathy was surprised by his courteous compliment. It was so unlike him to compliment her in such a way, that, at first, she did not know what to say and merely stared at him in surprise. Jack opened his mouth as if to continue, but she interrupted him, 'You have my gratitude, Jacky,' she said in a caring voice, 'I earnestly hope you find the right companion today.'
When Cathy looked away, Jack bit his lower lip and turned his frustrated face to Sophie as she climbed to the podium and began her presentation:
'The animal known as Acinonyx jubatus was one of the terrestrial animals that are believed to have inhabited the region of what is today known as the Barren Tundra. It is believed that this tundra was once rich with a large variety of vegetation and great animal herds, giving rise to extensive prairies which were a common sight during the Age of the Antiga Pyre. Examination of sub-fossils suggests that the Acinonyx jubatus hunted other animals for food and relied on sheer speed and not physical strength to overcome their prey. Researchers are yet to find any other animal with such graceful and sleek bone structure, which lead them to believe that they were the fastest animals to have ever coexisted with the antigans. The prime factor to their extinction is attributed to the Open Hunting during the Age of Obscurity, a time when our ancestors carelessly hunted every animal for food and pelts. I chose it because it was a graceful and proud animal,' she let out a saddened smile and bowed before stepping down from the podium.
Haji remembered the moment when Sophie said, ''It will be a surprise''. In truth, it had been such a pleasant surprise to see that they had had a similar taste in choosing their animal, that he reasoned they would have a productive existence together. After congratulating her and whispering into her ear that her presentation was outstanding, he rose to the podium and began in a clear assured voice, his eyes fixed on her smiling stare:
'The Lynx pardinus bore a close resemblance to the previously presented animal, the only significant difference being that they were smaller in scale. Their remains were found on an isolated peninsula Southeast of the East Continent which was known as Iberia. Detailed analysis to sub-fossils stored in the Historic Records, reveal specific traits such as heightened night vision and improved hearing, which led Specialists to believe they were mostly a nocturnal species that fed on other animals. It is not known for certain the primary reason for their extinction but studies of remains of ingested animals led us to believe that an epidemic spread through their habitat, and as a result the Lynx Pardinus inevitably succumbed, leaving behind only traces of their existence. I too chose them because they were graceful and proud,' he said and bowed and climbed down from the stage.
When Haji sat next to Sophie, she spoke to him in a mellifluous voice, 'You were even more outstanding, my favorite darmian.'
The moment for the most highly acclaimed animal of the evening to climb on the podium soon followed. Jack rose above the furry audience and landed on the podium with one swift jump. His long, tufted tail whooshed through the air as he spun round to face the crowd, and his golden mane came swooping down with a courteous low bow. Right from the start his entrance had upstaged all other presentations, and he received an eager applause from the audience. Marlene, Heidi and her other rodent friend chirred flirtatiously. Jack winked at them, and raised his arms, casting his fingers as retractable claws towards them and roared. The cheering rose even louder, and the applause resounded though the hall. Jack waved off the applause and when the noise slowly subsided to an absolute silence, he began his presentation with an overly expressive quirkiness which only he was capable of:
'The Panthera Leo was the fiercest animal to have ever existed upon the lands of the Antiga Pyre and without doubt resided on the top of the animal food chain. In fact, he was so menacing, so menacing, that his deafening roar would compel any other animal to bow before him in terrified reverence,' he combed his mane with a quick gesture, raising his head to the ceiling in a display of supremacy; two female animals from the second row giggled to each other which inflated his ego to an even higher level. 'For countless years he ruled as the king of animals, an unmatched predator save for inferior animals who took advantage of his distraction to pilfer his half-eaten preys. Yet despite being terrifying, he was also honorable and loyal. In fact, he was so loyal, so loyal, that his role in the pack was to ensure the protection of the females and his descendants by overseeing his vast territory. He would mark it with pheromones to prevent any rival from claiming his companions, and trust me when I say, that territorial disputes between these animals, these magnificent and terrifying animals, were the most spectacular displays of ferocity ever seen in Artica!' he then continued, changing his registry to a more flirtatious tone. 'And they were a gallant animal as well, so gallant, that the role of the females was to ensure they were sated with food and pleasure, and when---'
'How did they choose their companions?' Julia, who was sitting next to Marlene asked loudly.
Jack grinned at her and answered impatiently, 'I was just getting to that,' he combed his mane and continued. 'As I was saying, he was so gallant, so gallant, that when he courted a female, they would have no other desire but to surrender to his biddings and forever become his loyal companion. In fact, it was because he was so gallant, so gallant, that the Panthera leo succeeded in conquering many females, which he then made sure to protect fervently.'
Interrupting his performance abruptly, he spoke out of character and was back to being the casual Jack. 
'In fact, if you think about it, it is makes complete sense, and I believe this behavior should be cultivated in Darm. I mean, we should be allowed to have as many companions as we desire,' he said, and when he realized all the female apprentices were staring at him with incredulity, he quickly tried to explain. 'I mean there are so many of you! Why spend our entire existence with just one when we could have so many?' he asked impulsively, and then started feeling embarrassed, terribly embarrassed, and hastily drew an innocent smile which even between his brown and white makeup had all the appearance of being characteristically Jackyish.
The statement had divided reactions among the audience: the male animals laughed while the females frowned. Marlene, Heidi and Julia giggled together; Cathy and Sophie shook their heads in disbelief, while you and Haji laughed behind your hands. Despite the indignation, many found it to be a reasonable dilemma, and that same thought had crossed you and everyone else's mind, even if it had never been so openly admitted, or suggested.
'He is right!' spoke a young male voice amongst the crowd. 'We should be able to have as many companions as we want!'
'The only thing you will have is an empty residence!' added one annoyed female voice.
Many girls nodded and agreed, and a sudden debate broke out as male and female finalists turned on each other to defend their points of view.
Feeling guilty for having started the discussion, Jack raised his voice and spoke solemnly, drawing back the attention of everyone:
'They were fierce animals, capable of instilling the most profound admiration in any of us, but like all other animals they were lost forever during the Age of Obscurity. There is evidence that suggest that some managed to survive for some centuries after the collapse of antigan civilization, but with the Open Hunt they were hunted to extinction. They are gone, now, forever.'
Nothing could have silenced that hall any better than those words. The crowd had stopped arguing to stare at him in silence. He stood quietly atop the podium and did not look so proud now. Sorrow was filling his eyes and his mane had lost all splendor. Discussions about ideal companions now seemed petty to them, and any outcome they could possibly face during their existence was belittled in comparison to what had happened to all the animals that existed before their time. You felt saddened to learn of their undeserved fate. There had been an unimaginable variety of life on Artica, innumerable and magnificent animals that had prospered for ages far before the rise of the Pyre, sharing in balance the same land and sea and air. They had endured all the hardships forced upon them and still managed to thrive and bring endless beauty to the world. But, in the end, they were powerless to outlive the destruction brought down upon them by a single animal, a single creature which in its struggle for survival had carelessly neglected all life. The finalists looked at each other with newfound respect for the animals that each represented, and as they stared into each other's furry faces, a single realization came to their minds. What an irreversible loss the world has suffered with their passing.
...they are honored in death when they should have been cared for in life...
The silence was slowly lifted into an intense crescendo of applauses and effusive cheering that ended in a choir screaming, ''Jacky! Jacky! Jacky!''. Jack raised his claws proudly and unleashed his wide smile, bowing countless times before stepping down from the stage. As he sat down on his puff, you spoke to him, 'Congratulations Jacky. I am sure that that was the best presentation Darm has ever seen. How did you know so much about the Panthera leo?'
Jack leaned over Cathy's legs and answered, 'I studied. You shouldn't underestimate my desire to impress,' he said and grinned.
Jack's presentation had thrown the finalists into a rowdy state, and their loud cheering was as big of an affront to the Order imposed in Darm as they could possibly conceive. And as if that Order remained ever vigilant, the Acolytes surrounded the multitude of colorful and furry apprentices and commanded them quite severely to remain calm and silent, placing them under penalty of bringing the Gathering to an early ending if they failed to comply. When the finalists calmed down and returned to a dull soberness, the Acolytes returned to their places and stood with their backs against the walls, facing the crowd, ever watching and listening.
'Alan, it is your turn,' Cathy whispered.
You sighed in dismay.
'Do I really have to? I'm not so good at speaking to an audience.'
'Come on, troublemaker,' Haji whispered from your right side. 'It is what you do best.'
You got up reluctantly and stepped onto the podium, one bulky black leg after the other. At first you were a little intimidated, especially by the blank unflinching stare the Acolytes gave you. Then, as you looked at the nearly one thousand finalists staring back at you, a queasy sensation threw you off balance. Your puffy head wobbled, your limbs felt heavy, and you had trouble just to keep your balance on the metallic podium. To make matters worse, you realized that watching you at that very moment was the apprentice that would be your companion for the rest of your existence. You knew you had to do your best to impress her and even if you did not feel well standing there, you fervently renounced the thought of climbing down without first presenting your animal.
...belief empowers...
You gathered your courage, cast aside all negative thoughts, and focused solely on what you had learned from the Historic Records:
'The Ailuropoda melanoleuca,' you began in an insecure yet audible voice, 'was the term designated to a peculiar kind of animal that was found in a specific region of the Central Continent. Despite possessing a digestive system adapted to a carnivorous diet, no remains were found inside their digestive tract other than a specific vegetable, which led Specialists to believe they were uniquely adapted to a region where they inhabited for millions of years,' you finished the paragraph with a deep relaxing breath. 'Study of their neo-cortex suggests that they were harmless and solitary, however somewhat territorial, and it is believed that due to these traits, they were respected and admired by our ancestors. Evidence from recovered sub-fossils is not conclusive as to the cause of their extinction. Sedimentary analysis reveals that they survived the Open Hunt. However, it is likely that their numbers dwindled due to starvation, as their source for food disappeared during the lowering of the global temperature,' you finished and bowed hastily, your puffy paws hanging at your sides.
'Why did you pick it?' Cathy asked abruptly, trying to rouse your somber speech.
You wobbled on the stage and glanced outside the window-wall, trying to find the answer written on the dispersed flakes of falling snow. An almost irresistible desire to flee made you wonder how resilient the permaglass window was and if it would break if you threw yourself at it, and you went as far as to speculate whether it would shatter or leave behind the silhouette of your fleeing body if you did. You chuckled to yourself, amused by that thought, skimmed your chest with both paws and answered plainly, 'I chose it because it was a peaceful and friendly animal, but at the same time great and strong.'
'Well, it suits you very well,' Cathy added and smiled.
A group of female apprentices giggled behind her. Cathy looked back and giggled with them, and as you climbed down from the stage you heard some finalists amongst the crowd murmuring ''Cathy and Alan.''
You sat once more next to Cathy, who smiled at you with a soft yet intense gentleness.
'You did well, troublemaker,' Haji said, sitting at your right.
The rest of the individual presentations proceeded to the solemn formality of each finalist's speech. From time to time, one or another apprentice would stand up from the audience to grab some geometric appetizers from the trays, which were becoming disturbingly empty as the last apprentices presented their animals. The final twenty were from class #50 and amongst them, there was one Troglodites gorilla coated in black fur, with black hairless face and hands, followed by an Equus zebra, whose black and white stripes befuddled many spectators, one female Panthera onca with a dazzling black pelt and deep dark eyes, and lastly, a Canis lupus with a grey fur, keen eyes, sharp ears and even sharper voice.
When everyone had presented their animals, Cathy stepped onto the stage: 
'Now that we have concluded our individual presentations, we will move to the most important part of the evening: selecting a companion. I do not think I need to explain to any of you what to do, - many apprentices smiled eagerly - so you may stand up and find yourselves someone to share your residence with!'
At the sound of those words, the one thousand apprentices stood up hastily and started to form groups and groups of mixed genders. The stage was lowered back to floor level and the portion of the hall adjacent to the permaglass wall slid outwards, forming a gigantic circle shaped balcony amidst the middle floors of the tall, round skyscraper. Many groups decided to stay behind the plasma field that was raised to insulate the balcony from the rest of the hall, while others decided to step outside and chat, under the cover of a roof that had extended outwards. 
As the hours passed, the evening turned into a cold quiet night. Those who the Gathering had served its purpose started to leave, and pair by pair, Cathy's suite became less and less crowded. The groups that remained slowly became scattered about the hall, standing around tables and having conversations on the balcony, while dismay was starting to show on the faces of those alone, leaning on walls or lolling restlessly on puffs. Their dismay was justifiable, for if they could not find a suitable companion, Mother would randomly select one from the remaining finalists in that same hall.
Although you were aware of that, you made no attempt to find a companion throughout the rest of the evening. You thought about talking to Cathy. You had been good friends with her for many years, and you knew that she was the most appropriate companion for you, but seeing that it was such an important decision, you were still unsure whether to propose to her or not. So, instead of looking for her, you remained on the balcony with Haji, leaning on the long metallic railing and gazing down at the endless darkness of the Sea of Tranquility. Straight down, you could see the Coastal Walkway, its pavement lit in little white circles of light that illuminated the scattered benches and ventilation boxes. 
Haji would pause between the conversation to exhale blasts of warm breath into the freezing air and watch it crystallize into snowflakes that would then scatter into the air. It was a habit he had acquired from you. Every time he did, he found it intriguing that the crystallization process would occur so fast and merely from the water vapor exhaled from his lungs. He had precise knowledge of the process required for snowflakes to form, and in no way were the conditions required ever met. To that day he could not find a reasonable explanation for it, but he found that envisioning a likely explanation, that he then could put to test, was as an entertaining exercise for his brain as was watching them form and scatter.
'It has a sense of irony to it,' he spoke, concluding an unspoken line of thought.
'What does?' you asked absentmindedly, watching the eidetic memory of Cathy's presentation, which you had stored in your Unit and now conveyed into your mind.
With eyes cast upon the scattering snow, Haji explained in a fascinated voice, 'Water is the fundamental molecule of existence. We are mostly composed of it, and without it, Artica would have been unsuitable for any known organism to inhabit it, including us. Still, if we were to drink copious amounts of it in a short time interval, it would poison us and we would cease to exist.'
The image of Cathy's glossy red smile disintegrated from your field of view.
'It is ironic,' he repeated, 'we cannot exist without it, but if we have too much of it, it becomes a poisonous substance.'
'Everything has a limit,' you concluded.
'Precisely,' Haji agreed. 'It seems we have been designed to operate under specific conditions, and if any of these conditions are not met, either by us failing to meet them or due to some circumstance beyond our control, our continuity is no longer possible.'
You sighed as you watched an invulnerable group of sentinels far below on the Coastal Walkway, marching against the freezing wind. 'Our existence is frail,' you murmured.
Haji's eyes brightened as he stared at you, for your short remark was the sum of all his contemplation, 'Precisely! And that leads me to speculate that our existence depends on a chain of fortuitous events that occurred throughout billions of years. It is not just water that is poisonous, the oxygen we breathe can poison us as well. Ultimately, anything can be poisonous. The temperature of our surrounding, the concentration of gases in the atmosphere, the nutrients we consume, the radiation coming from Mithras, these and many more factors are needed to assure our existence and these and many other factors can just as easily terminate it,' he said, and as looked up to the darkened sky, he tried to envision the stars beyond the clouds, beyond the silvery lunoids of Oderon's Rings, beyond the endlessness of space; he lost himself wondering whether those conditions had been met on other planets.
You added humorously, 'Did you know that a gastian ceased to exist because he could not stop laughing? In a way, that proves your point. Even too much laughter can, in some way, be poisonous,' you said. Then, you added with sarcasm, 'I assume that's why games are forbidden in Darm.'
Haji gave you a stern look. 'That is obviously not the reason. Games, like any other form of entertainment, are not allowed in Darm because they are disruptive to the state of mind necessary to uphold darmian productivity. Any rewarding activity releases endorphins into our nervous system. These grant us with a sense of accomplishment. However, the rewards produced from entertaining activities lead to an inadequate sense of accomplishment, which lowers motivation and leads to idleness. Idleness lowers productivity. Low productivity leads to disorder; hence, entertainment leads to disorder. And that is directly against our Prime Directive.'
'You sound just like a Mentalist,' you said with discomfort.
Haji could not help but laugh. 'I appreciate your comparison. Mentalists are the most intelligent pyreans of our time. They are supposedly far more intelligent than our ancestors, which were intelligent, despite what happened to them.'
You looked away and muttered, 'Smart as they may be, I still don't agree with their rules. We should be allowed to have some fun now and then.'
'Fun is against the Prime Directive,' Haji answered and quieted himself, contemplating.
You looked down at your puffy black paw, then at Haji's long whiskers, and said with disquiet, 'If our ancestors were as intelligent as evidence suggests, why did they allow these animals to become extinct? I am sure they could have found a way to survive without having to hunt them for food.'
'Perhaps they took their existence for granted and never cared to think that they were condemning them to extinction. Or, perhaps, the Torment was too much for them to withstand, and in the long-lasting years of the Age of Obscurity, they descended into savagery and ignorance, as mentor Levine stated.'
Your eyes became as gloomy as the black dots of fur around them. 'It is regrettable. They were truly special,' you said in a melancholic voice.
'They were indeed,' Haji answered.
Sophie slid to Haji's side like a swift and silent feline and threw herself into his furry arms as he opened them out of reflex to embrace her. Cathy followed behind, carrying a cup in her hands.
'You two have been here all evening,' said Sophie, frowning at Haji.
'We are enjoying the view,' Haji explained, 'It is not every day that we are allowed inside a suite.'
'Well, you are supposed to be choosing your companion,' she said, giving him a sly smile.
He looked into her smiling eyes and answered, 'I am looking at my companion.'
The black stripes falling from Sophie's hazel eyes bent around her cheeks as she pouted her lips with delight. 'In that case, your companion requests that you come with her,' she said.
Haji smiled, 'I will do what my companion requests.'
She grabbed his left paw and pulled him away into the hall. Before leaving, she turned to you and asked, 'Alan, will you keep Cathy company?'
Cathy walked up to you, grabbing the cup with both hands. She had a nervous smile on her face and your heart skipped a beat when she stopped at your side.
You nodded to Sophie.
'Sure.'
She and Haji left, crossing the plasma field and vanishing into the green shades of the murky hall, leaving you alone with Cathy.
You leaned your back on the rail in a relaxed manner and stared into the hall.
Cathy leaned next to you, and after an uncomfortable silence, she nudged you with her shoulder. 'So, how are you enjoying the Gathering?' she asked in a kindly voice.
'Very much,' you answered instinctively. 'It's my first time inside a suite. I assume it wasn't easy to convince the Council. Or your caretakers. I guess I have to thank you for the opportunity.'
'Don't be silly. You know you don't have to thank me,' she said, smiling at you.
You smiled back. 
Another uncomfortable silence started to settle, and you steered your mind away, turning your attention to the sound of voices coming from the hall. You looked inside to see how the hunt for companionship was progressing. Amongst the three hundred apprentices that still lingered inside, there was Jack in his Panthera leo in an amused conversation with Marlene in her dazzling attire, and Julia and Heidi in their squirrely attires, who were in turn with their backs turned to Leonard in his Elephas maximus, who was in his own turn pushing his trunk aside with one gray paw and giving her a long face while holding a cup.
'Once we become citizens, we will never see most our colleagues again,' said Cathy. 'I still can't get that into my mind.'
'We can always schedule meetings at any retreat,' you said.
'We can. And we will! But wouldn't it be great if we were allowed to visit each other whenever we wanted? Or decide who we want to be neighbors with?'
'It would.'
'I'm just afraid that we will never see each other again,' she said and sighed. 'I want you to know that, if that happens, I will miss you.'
You looked at her and smiled. 'I will miss you too,' you confessed.
She glanced at you tentatively, her bright brown eyes fidgeting nervously, and spoke, 'You know, we don't have to...'
'Don't have to what?' you asked innocently, all the while sensing that you were nearing some pivotal moment.
'Miss each other...' she said and drew close to you, her fingertips grabbing yours.
When you felt her soft touch your back stretched with one swift jerk, becoming as stiff as a beam of impermium.
'We could always become companions,' she said, drawing herself close to you.
The moment had come. There was no avoiding it anymore. Even if you had dreaded it, you felt relieved to know that your friendship with Cathy had turned out the way you knew it would. The way you had hoped it would. So, you surrendered yourself to the inevitable and asked the question you had been avoiding. 'Do you...want...to be my companion?'
She locked her delighted bright brown eyes onto yours and spoke with the most seductive and enthralling voice you had ever heard, 'Yes.'
If it were out of cold or something else you could not tell, but you felt a tingling sensation run down your spine when she wrapped her arms around you. Still, instead of letting yourself yield to that intimate embrace, you started to worry that someone would see you.
'It's all right,' she whispered close to your lips, seeing your eyes peering from corner to corner. 'The Acolytes aren't paying attention to the balcony. We're all alone.'
Being so close to her was deeply unnerving. Her glossy red lips started drawing nearer and nearer and you felt her warm sweet breath upon your unshut lips. She closed her eyes and pressed her lips against yours, her tender body sinking onto yours, her paws grabbing your back. 
It was finally happening.
But you could not give in to the moment.
There was something strange about it.
For what seemed an eternity, your eyes remained open and you remained stone cold, neither accepting nor refusing her passionate kiss, as her wet lips eagerly felt yours. To that day, Cathy had been the only girl with whom you had shared some level of intimacy, and you had imagined that kissing her would be an epiphany of joy. But now that you did, now that the kiss was happening, you felt nothing other than skin pressed against wet skin and the insipid taste of her saliva. There was nothing stirring inside you. There was no epiphany.
She realized something was wrong, and when she opened her eyes and saw your inexpressive stare, she stopped.
She pulled her lips away from yours and slowly stepped back. 'Well, that was awkward,' she said, skimming one of her long white ears embarrassedly.
 You were dazed beyond words. Still, you tried to rattle an excuse out of your mouth, 'I...I don't know what happened.'
Cathy hid her face, clasping her hands in front of her waist and looking down at them.
'I've always liked you, Alan,' she confessed with some effort.
'I've always liked you too, Cathy.'
She stared at you and asked, her voice hinting anguish, 'Then, what is wrong?'
'I don't know,' you said and hesitated, and then spewed out what you felt was right. 'I am not sure if we should be companions.'
The glimmer in her eyes extinguished, her smile sunk into sadness, and she hid her face under her long drooping ears.
Seeing her so disheartened made you feel painfully guilty. You sensed that somehow you should have enjoyed her kiss and ignored the part of you that said that something did not feel right. And now that everything felt terribly wrong, you stared to consider that the epiphany you had hoped for had been merely an illusion, a product of fantasy, a trick of the mind.
'Cathy, I'm not as...energetic...as Jack,' you said, carefully choosing an appropriate word. 'I don't try to impress every girl just for the sake of having the companion I want. In truth, I am exactly the opposite. I like you, but---'
'It's all right, Alan,' she answered in a tremulous voice, her long furry ears hanging down in disappointment.
Feeling the pain your words were causing her, your guilt turned into anguish, and you said in desperation, 'Cathy you are a great girl---'
'It is fine,' she interrupted you. Then she looked at you soberly. 'But you should not think that way of Jack. He might be immature at times, but he is better than he appears to be, better than many think him to be. If anything, you should be more like him and take a chance with those you want to be with,' she said, and turned, and left to the hall.
You stayed on the edge of the balcony, feeling alone and dejected, unable to understand why you had just turned down the only girl you liked.

***


Hiding under a shadow of the dimly lit green hall, Sophie's and Haji's tender gazes were fixed in mutual admiration.
'I don't know how much longer I can resist kissing you,' Sophie said passionately.
'Well, you must restrain yourself until we are companions,' said Haji. 'We should not breach the Directives for proper conduct.'
The realization of becoming Haji's companion was too overwhelming for Sophie. Out of impulse, she closed her eyes and gently kissed his lips. When she slowly opened them, her lips still lingered near Haji's dumbfounded lips, and she felt that she was having a pleasant dream. Immersed in trance, she allowed them to stay there a while longer.
'I don't care. I have been wanting to feel your lips for too long,' she whispered softly, her eyes partly closed, partly staring at Haji's, who was looking around to see if anyone, especially any Acolyte noticed. Fortunately, they were more concentrated in the larger group of finalists that was gathered around the food.
At that same time, Cathy stopped in an empty space inside the hall, looking lost and saddened, and her mournful look caught Haji's attention.
'Cathy is back inside,' he said. 'She looks distressed.'
Sophie saw her too.
'It doesn't look that it went well. Can you check on Alan?' she asked him gently.
Haji nodded and left.
Sophie walked up to Cathy, who gave her a saddened smile.
'How did it go?' she asked.
Cathy looked down and spoke in a sad voice, 'It didn't work out the way I expected.'
Sophie did not know what to say. She, like any other apprentice, had little experience in relationships, especially those that ended in disappointment. Therefore, she said what she considered to be a reasonable way of accepting the outcome, 'Well, now you know and got rid of that doubt. Don't think about it anymore. He was just one of many,' she smiled at her cheerfully and pointed to the groups of apprentices still in the hall.
Cathy's grief lessened when she caught her smile. 'And he will never know what he missed,' she said and forced herself to smile. 'The Gathering is nearing its end, but I can still find a suitable companion.'
'You will. I will make sure of it!' Sophie added.
Sophie grabbed her hand and led her to the merriest group of apprentices. Jack was there, flaunting his mane as he chatted with Heidi, Marlene and Julia. He could not make up his mind about who would be the best companion for him: he did not know if he would be fond of Marlene's pale skin, after she was no longer wearing her colorful attire, or if he could tolerate Heidi's constant blabbering about everything she had learned in the indoctrinations; or stand the disconcerting gaze of reverence that Julia had been throwing at him ever since he flashed her his smile. He did not care much about the Standing of his companion, or he would have no doubt about choosing Heidi, who was top of her class, and was otherwise interested in which of them had the most carnal appeal and who seemed to be more devoted to him. By the look of it, the first seemed to be Marlene, the latter seemed to be Julia. But Heidi had alluring facets as well, and at that point, if he were allowed, he would have chosen all three of them. 
When he threw back his mane, he realized Cathy was staring at him, and he immediately ignored the three girls and turned his undivided attention to her. When she gave him a sad smile, he did his best to cheer her up. She treated his silly behaviors with kindness and her heart even lightened. Somehow, losing the chance to be with you had made her see Jack as the good friend he was.
...that which disappointed her the most was not losing what could have been...but what will never come to be...

***

'It is time that I left,' you said to Haji as he stopped before you at the edge of the balcony.
'You are not going to choose a companion?' Haji asked.
You shrugged.
'I don't know which one to choose. I guess it's better let Mother decide.'
'In that case, I will go with you,' he offered without hesitation.
'You don't have to. I will be fine,' you assured in an affected manner.
Haji easily understood the ulterior motive hidden beneath your answer, 'Do you think I would let you return to your residence alone with a snowstorm approaching and two Specialists that might be afflicted by the Torment still missing?' he said.
'The Specialists are trapped inside the Hub and the snowstorm will only hit Darm later in the night,' you objected with a seemingly unbeatable logic. 'Besides, it is better that I go alone than Sophie.'
'Sophie is staying with Cathy tonight,' Haji retorted. 'She already has Mother's permission. And I do not trust you to be safe if you are to go alone, even if the Council claims that the Specialists are trapped inside the Hub.'
For a moment you thought that he was worried about your safety. You admired his selflessness, seeing as he was willing to risk his own safety to ensure yours.
'I am impressed,' you stated. 'I did not think you doubted the Council's report.'
He gave you a sly smile. 'It is not mistrust in the Mentalists that drives me to go with you. It is mistrust in your ability to stop yourself from doing something foolish, such as trying to sneak inside the Hub alone.'
You could not deny it. While you were outside alone, pondering about your future, your thoughts had turned to thinking of a way to get inside the Hub, for your mind was set on seeing the Specialists with your own eyes and finding out if the Torment was truly real.
You sighed and abandoned your farce, knowing he had bested you in yet another game of logic, 'You know me too well. All right, let's leave to our residences. But know that I am not pleased about you stopping me.'
He grinned at you.
'I never said I would stop you.'
